UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1423-3
Program Non-Formulary
Medication Fluticasone propionate HFA*
P&T Approval Date 12/2023, 3/2024, 3/2025
Effective Date 6/1/2025
1. Background:
Fluticasone propionate HFA* is indicated for the maintenance treatment of asthma as prophylactic
therapy in adults and pediatric patients. Guidelines recommend the use of a spacer device based
on child’s age and capability. The preferred device in patients < 3 years of age is a spacer with
face mask and for children aged 3-5 the preferred device is a spacer with mouthpiece. In addition,
spacers remain essential for some elderly patients who are unable to utilize devices correctly.
Guidelines from the American College of Gastroenterology and consensus recommendations from
the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) Institute/North American Society of
Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition on the management of eosinophilic
esophagitis recommend oral administration of inhalational corticosteroids (e.g., fluticasone,
budesonide) as first-line therapy in adults and children with eosinophilic esophagitis.
Claims for patients less than 6 years of age will process automatically.
2. Coverage Criteria:
Authorization
A. Asthma
1. Fluticasone propionate HFA* will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of asthma
-AND-
b. One of the following:
1) History of failure, contraindication or intolerance to both of the following:
a) Arnuity™ Ellipta®
b) QVAR RediHaler®
-OR-
2) Patient requires a metered dose inhaler used with a spacer device due to one of the
following:
a) Physical dexterity
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
b) Inspiratory flow
c) Cognitive status
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
B. Eosinophilic Esophagitis
1. Diagnosis of Eosinophilic Esophagitis
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
*Fluticasone propionate HFA is typically excluded from coverage
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
4. References:
1. Fluticasone HFA [package insert]. Mason, OH: Prasco Laboratories; May 2023
2. Global Strategy for Asthma Management and Prevention. Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA).
2024.
Program Non-Formulary – Fluticasone propionate HFA
Change Control
Date Change
12/2023 New program.
3/2024 Added eosinophilic esophagitis to criteria.
3/2025 Annual review. Updated references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2