UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2362-1
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Attruby™ (acoramidis)
P&T Approval Date 1/2025
Effective Date 4/1/2025
1. Background:
Attruby is a transthyretin stabilizer indicated for the treatment of the cardiomyopathy of wild-type
or variant transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis (ATTR-CM) in adults to reduce cardiovascular
death and cardiovascular-related hospitalization.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Transthyretin (ATTR)-mediated amyloidosis with cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Attruby will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of transthyretin (ATTR)-mediated amyloidosis with cardiomyopathy
(ATTR-CM)
-AND-
(2) One of the following:
(a) Documentation that the patient has a pathogenic TTR mutation (e.g., V30M)
-OR-
(b) Cardiac or noncardiac tissue biopsy demonstrating histologic confirmation of
ATTR amyloid deposits
-OR-
(c) All of the following:
i. Echocardiagram or cardiac magnetic resonance imaging suggestive of
amyloidosis
-AND-
ii. Radionuclide imaging (99mTc-DPD, 99mTc-PYP, or 99m Tc-HMDP) showing
grade 2 or 3 cardiac uptake*
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
iii. Absence of light chain amyloidosis
-AND-
(3) Patient has New York Heart Association (NYHA) Functional Class I, II, or III heart
failure
-AND-
(4) Physician attests that the patient has an N-terminal pro-B-type naturetic peptide (NT-
proBNP) level that, when combined with signs and symptoms, is considered
definitive for a diagnosis of ATTR-CM
-AND-
(5) One of the following:
(a) History of heart failure, with at least one prior hospitalization for heart failure
-OR-
(b) Presence of signs and symptoms of heart failure (e.g., dyspnea, edema)
-AND-
(6) Prescribed by or in consultation with a cardiologist
-AND-
(7) Patient is not receiving Attruby in combination with an RNA-targeted therapy for
ATTR amyloidosis [i.e., Amvuttra (vutrisiran), Onpattro (patisiran), Tegsedi
(inotersen), Vyndaqel/Vyndamax (tafamadis), or Wainua (eplontersen)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Attruby will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation that the patient has experienced a positive clinical response to
Attruby (e.g., improved symptoms, quality of life, slowing of disease progression,
decreased hospitalizations, etc.)
-AND-
(2) Documentation that patient continues to have New York Heart Association (NYHA)
Functional Class I, II, or III heart failure
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
(3) Prescribed by or in consultation with a cardiologist
-AND-
(4) Patient is not receiving Attruby in combination with an RNA-targeted therapy for
ATTR amyloidosis [i.e., Amvuttra (vutrisiran), Onpattro (patisiran), Tegsedi
(inotersen), Vyndaqel/Vyndamax (tafamadis), or Wainua (eplontersen)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
*May require prior authorization and notification
3. Additional Clinical Programs:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Attruby [package insert]. BridgeBio Pharma, Inc: Palo Alto, CA; November 2024.
2. Fontana, M. Cardiac amyloidosis: Epidemiology, clinical manifestations, and diagnosis.
UpToDate. Dardas, T: UpToDate Inc. https://www.uptodate.com (Accessed on December 2,
2024).
3. Fontana, M. Cardiac amyloidosis: Treatment and prognosis. UpToDate. Dardas, T: UpToDate
Inc. https://www.uptodate.com (Accessed on December 2, 2024).
4. Ruberg FL, Maurer MS. Cardiac Amyloidosis Due to Transthyretin Protein: A Review. JAMA
2024; 331:778.
5. Kittleson, M, Ruberg, F. et al. 2023 ACC Expert Consensus Decision Pathway on
Comprehensive Multidisciplinary Care for the Patient With Cardiac Amyloidosis: A Report of the
American College of Cardiology Solution Set Oversight Committee. JACC. 2023 Mar, 81 (11)
1076–1126.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity - Attruby™ (acoramidis)
Change Control
1/2025 New program.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3