UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 2356-1
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Livdelzi® (seladelpar)
P&T Approval Date 12/2024
Effective Date 3/1/2025
1. Background:
Livdelzi (seladelpar) is a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-delta agonist
indicated for the treatment of primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) in combination with
ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) in adults who have an inadequate response to UDCA, or as
monotherapy in patients unable to tolerate UDCA.
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on a reduction of alkaline
phosphatase (ALP). Improvement in survival or prevention of liver decompensation events have
not been demonstrated. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon
verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trial(s).1
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Livdelzi will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of primary biliary cholangitis
-AND-
b. Patient does not have decompensated cirrhosis
-AND-
c. One of the following^:
(1) Both of the following:
(a) Used in combination with ursodeoxycholic acid (e.g., Urso, ursodiol)
(b) Patient has failed to achieve an alkaline phosphatase (ALP) level of less than
1.67 times the upper limit of normal after at least 12 consecutive months of
treatment with ursodeoxycholic acid (e.g., Urso, ursodiol)
-OR-
(2) History of contraindication or intolerance to ursodeoxycholic acid (e.g., Urso,
ursodiol)
-AND-
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
d. Patient is not receiving Livdelzi in combination with Iqirvo (elafibranor) or Ocaliva
(obeticholic acid)
-AND-
e. Prescribed by one of the following:
(1) Hepatologist
(2) Gastroenterologist
Initial authorization will be issued for 12 months
B. Reauthorization
1. Livdelzi will be approved based on all the following criteria:
a. Submission of medical records (e.g., laboratory values) documenting a reduction in
ALP level from pre-treatment baseline (i.e., prior to Livdelzi therapy)
-AND-
b. Patient does not have decompensated cirrhosis
-AND-
c. Patient is not receiving Livdelzi in combination with Iqirvo (elafibranor) or Ocaliva
(obeticholic acid)
-AND-
d. Prescribed by one of the following:
(1) Hepatologist
(2) Gastroenterologist
Reauthorization will be issued for 12 months
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
^Tried/failed alternative(s) are supported by FDA labeling.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Supply limits may be in place.
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
4. References:
1. Livdelzi [package insert]. Foster City, CA: Gilead Sciences, Inc.; August 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Livdelzi (seladelpar)
Change Control
Date Change
12/2024 New program.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
3