UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 2312-3
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Veozah™ (fezolinetant)
P&T Approval Date 8/2023, 8/2024, 11/2024
Effective Date 2/1/2025
1. Background:
Veozah (fezolinetant) is a neurokinin 3 (NK3) receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of
moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms due to menopause.
Veozah use has been associated with reports of hepatotoxicity in post marketing studies that
gradually resolve after discontinuation of Veozah. Baseline hepatic laboratory tests should be
evaluated prior to initiation of Veozah.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Veozah will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms due to menopause
-AND-
b. History of failure (after a 30-day trial), contraindication or intolerance to one of the
following:
1) Hormonal therapy (e.g., estradiol, Premarin, Prempro)
2) Non-hormonal therapy [e.g., clonidine, gabapentin, selective serotonin
inhibitors (e.g., paroxetine), serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors
(e.g., venlafaxine)]
-AND-
c. Patient has received baseline hepatic laboratory tests to rule out the presence of
underlying liver disease
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Veozah will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to therapy (e.g., decrease in frequency
and severity of vasomotor symptoms from baseline)
-AND-
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
b. Patient has received periodic evaluation of hepatic laboratory tests to rule out liver
injury associated with Veozah use
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-
10) and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
4. References:
1. Veozah [package insert]. Northbrook, IL: Astellas US LLC. August 2024.
2. Khan, SJ, Kapoor, E, Faubion, SS, Kling, JM. Vasomotor Symptoms During Menopause:
A Practical Guide on Current Treatments and Future Perspectives. Int J Womens
Health.2023: 15: 273-87.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity - Veozah
Change Control
8/2023 New program.
8/2024 Annual review. Updated references.
11/2024 Added criteria for hepatic laboratory tests and updated references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2