UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2265-4
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Tavneos® (avacopan)
P&T Approval Date 1/2022, 1/2023, 1/2024, 1/2025
Effective Date 4/1/2025
1. Background:
Tavneos (avacopan) is a complement 5a receptor (C5aR) antagonist indicated as an
adjunctive treatment of adult patients with severe active anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic
autoantibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis (granulomatosis with polyangiitis [GPA] and
microscopic polyangiitis [MPA]) in combination with standard therapy including
glucocorticoids. Tavneos does not eliminate glucocorticoid use.
2. Coverage Criteria a:
A. Anti-Neutrophil Cytoplasmic Autoantibody (ANCA) - Associated Vasculitis
1. Initial Authorization
a. Tavneos will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of severe active ANCA-associated vasculitis
-AND-
(2) Submission of medical records (e.g., chart notes, laboratory values, etc.)
documenting the disease is one of the following types:
(a) Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA)
(b) Microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)
-AND-
(3) Patient is being treated with an initial immunosuppressive regimen to induce
remission (i.e., rituximab, cyclophosphamide)
-AND-
(4) Tavneos is being prescribed as adjunctive treatment in combination with standard
therapy (e.g. prednisone, azathioprine, mycophenolate, methotrexate, rituximab,
cyclophosphamide)
-AND-
(5) Prescribed by one of the following:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
(a) Rheumatologist
(b) Nephrologist
(c) Pulmonologist
(d) Vascular Medicine Specialist
Authorization will be issued for 6 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Tavneos will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Tavneos therapy
-AND-
(2) Tavneos is being prescribed as adjunctive treatment in combination with standard
therapy (e.g. prednisone, azathioprine, mycophenolate, methotrexate, rituximab,
cyclophosphamide)
-AND-
(3) Prescribed by or in consultation with one of the following:
(a) Rheumatologist
(b) Nephrologist
(c) Pulmonologist
(d) Vascular Medicine Specialist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-
10) and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
4. References:
1. Tavneos [package insert]. Cincinnati, OH: Thermo Fisher Scientific; June 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity - Tavneos® (avacopan)
Change Control
1/2022 New program
1/2023 Annual review with no change to coverage criteria.
1/2024 Annual review with no changes.
1/2025 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated reference.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3