UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 2310-3
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Vowst™ (fecal microbiota spores, live-brpk)
P&T Approval Date 7/2023, 12/2023, 12/2024
Effective Date 3/1/2025
1. Background:
Vowst is indicated to prevent the recurrence of Clostridioides difficile infection (CDI) in
individuals 18 years of age and older following antibacterial treatment for recurrent CDI (rCDI).
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Authorization
1. Vowst will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of recurrent Clostridioides difficile infection (rCDI) as defined by both of
the following:
(1) Presence of diarrhea defined as a passage of 3 or more loose bowel movements
within a 24-hour period for 2 consecutive days
(2) A positive stool test for Clostridioides difficile toxin
-AND-
b. Patient is 18 years of age or older
-AND-
c. Patient has had one or more recurrence(s) of CDI following an initial episode of
CDI
-AND-
d. Patient has had a failure, contraindication, or intolerance to Rebyota for the
prevention of rCDI
-AND-
e. Patient has completed at least 10 days of one of the following antibiotic therapies
for rCDI 2 to 4 days prior to initiating Vowst^:
(1) Oral vancomycin
(2) Dificid (fidaxomicin)
-AND-
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
f. Previous episode of CDI is under control [e.g., less than 3 unformed/loose (i.e.,
Bristol Stool Scale type 6-7) stools/day for 2 consecutive days]
-AND-
g. Patient will drink magnesium citrate on the day before and at least 8 hours prior to
taking the first dose of Vowst
-AND-
h. Prescribed by or in consultation with one of the following:
(1) Gastroenterologist
(2) Infectious disease specialist
Authorization will be issued for 1 month
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
^Tried/failed alternative(s) are supported by FDA labeling.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may apply.
4. References:
1. Vowst [package insert]. Cambridge, MA: Seres Therapeutics, Inc.; June 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Vowst (fecal microbiota
spores, live-brpk)
Change Control
Date Change
7/2023 New program.
12/2023 Updated criteria to lower the number of required recurrent CDI.
Updated antibiotic course requirement. Added requirement of failure,
contraindication, or intolerance to Rebyota.
12/2024 Annual review. Updated reference.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2