UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 2020-21
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – PAH Agents
Medication Adempas® (riociguat), Letairis®* (ambrisentan), Liqrev® (sildenafil)
oral suspension*, Opsumit® (macitentan), Opsynvi®
(macitentan/tadalafil)*, Orenitram™ (treprostinil), Revatio® (sildenafil
citrate) oral powder for suspension*, Tadliq® oral suspension (tadalafil),
Tracleer® (bosentan), Tyvaso® (treprostinil), Tyvaso DPI™
(treprostinil), Uptravi® (selexipag), Ventavis® (iloprost)
Note: These criteria only apply to the oral suspension formulations of
sildenafil citrate. The intravenous (IV) formulation is not self-
administered and is therefore not covered under the pharmacy benefit.
P&T Approval Date 4/2014, 12/2014, 5/2015, 1/2016, 2/2016, 12/2016, 9/2017, 11/2017,
11/2018, 11/2019, 11/2020, 6/2021, 6/2022, 10/2022, 12/2022, 3/2023,
2/2024, 8/2024, 11/2024
Effective Date 2/1/2025
1. Background:
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is often a progressive disease characterized by elevated
pressure in the vessels that carry blood between the heart and the lungs. This results in ventricular
dysfunction, reduced exercise capacity, the potential for right sided heart failure, and even death.
Several mechanisms have been identified in the pathogenesis of PAH, leading to the development of
five classes of medications to treat the disorder; endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs),
phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitors, prostacyclin analogs, soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC)
stimulators, and an activin signaling ligand.
Letairis* (ambrisentan), Tracleer (bosentan), and Opsumit (macitentan) are oral endothelin receptor
antagonists (ERAs). Letairis is indicated for the treatment of PAH (WHO Group 1) to improve
exercise ability and delay clinical worsening. It is also indicated in combination with tadalafil to
reduce the risk of disease progression and hospitalization for worsening PAH, and to improve
exercise ability.2 Tracleer is indicated for the treatment of PAH (WHO Group 1) to improve exercise
ability and to decrease clinical worsening in adult patients, and improve pulmonary vascular
resistance, which is expected to result in an improvement in exercise ability in pediatric patients
aged 3 years and older.3 Opsumit is indicated for the treatment of PAH (WHO Group 1) to reduce
the risks of disease progression and hospitalization for PAH. 8
Revatio* (sildenafil), Liqrev* (sildenafil), and Tadliq (tadalafil) are oral PDE-5 inhibitors. Revatio*
is indicated in pediatric patients 1 to 17 years old for the treatment of PAH (WHO Group 1) to
improve exercise ability and, in pediatric patients too young to perform standardized exercise
testing, pulmonary hemodynamics thought to underly improvements in exercise.4 Revatio* and
Liqrev are indicated in adult patients for the treatment of PAH (WHO Group 1) to improve exercise
ability and delay clinical worsening.4,17 Tadliq is indicated for the treatment of PAH (WHO Group 1)
to improve exercise ability. 5, 15-16
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
Ventavis (iloprost), Tyvaso (treprostinil), and Tyvaso DPI (treprostinil) are prostacyclin analogs.
Ventavis is administered as an inhalation solution, Tyvaso is administered as an inhalation solution,
and Tyvaso DPI is administered as a dry powder inhaler. Ventavis is indicated for the treatment of
PAH (WHO Group 1) to improve a composite endpoint consisting of exercise tolerance, symptoms
(NYHA Class), and lack of deterioration. 6 Tyvaso and Tyvaso DPI are indicated for the treatment of
PAH (WHO Group 1) to improve exercise ability. Tyvaso and Tyvaso DPI are also indicated for the
treatment of pulmonary hypertension associated with interstitial lung disease (WHO Group 3) to
improve exercise ability.7,13,14
Orenitram (treprostinil) is an orally administered prostacyclin analog indicated for the treatment of
PAH (WHO Group 1) to delay disease progression and to improve exercise capacity. 9
Adempas (riociguat) is a soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) stimulator indicated for the treatment of
adults with PAH (WHO Group 1) to improve exercise capacity, improve WHO functional class and
to delay clinical worsening. Adempas is also indicated for the treatment of adults with
persistent/recurrent chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) (WHO Group 4)
after surgical treatment or inoperable CTEPH to improve exercise capacity and WHO functional
class.10
Uptravi (selexipag) is a prostacyclin receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of PAH (WHO
Group 1) to delay disease progression and reduce the risk of hospitalization for PAH.12
Opsynvi* (macitentan/tadalafil) is a combination of macitentan, an endothelin receptor antagonist
(ERA), and tadalafil, a phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitor, indicated for chronic treatment of
pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH, WHO Group I) in adult patients of WHO functional class
(FC) II-III.18
Members currently on therapy for the above indications will be approved for initial authorization.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension
1. Initial Authorization
a. Adempas, Letairis*, Opsumit, Opsynvi*, Tracleer, Tyvaso, Tyvaso DPI, or
Ventavis will be approved based on one of the following criteria:
(1) All of the following:
(a) Pulmonary arterial hypertension is symptomatic
(b) Diagnosis of pulmonary arterial hypertension that is confirmed by right
heart catheterization
(c) The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a cardiologist,
pulmonologist, or rheumatologist.
-OR-
(2) Both of the following:
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
(a) Patient is currently on any therapy for the diagnosis of pulmonary arterial
hypertension
(b) The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a cardiologist,
pulmonologist, or rheumatologist.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
b. Revatio* oral powder for suspension, Liqrev oral suspension*, or Tadliq
oral suspension will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) One of the following:
(a) All of the following:
ii. Pulmonary arterial hypertension is symptomatic
iii. Diagnosis of pulmonary arterial hypertension that is confirmed by right
heart catheterization
-OR-
(b) Patient is currently on any therapy for the diagnosis of pulmonary arterial
hypertension
-AND-
(2) Patient is unable to ingest a solid dosage form (e.g., an oral tablet or capsule)
due to one of the following:
(a) age
(b) oral-motor difficulties
(c) dysphagia
-AND-
(3) Prescribed by or in consultation with a cardiologist, pulmonologist, or
rheumatologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
c. Orenitram or Uptravi will be approved based on one of the following criteria:
(1) All of the following:
(a) As continuation of therapy
-AND-
(b) Patient has not received a manufacturer supplied sample at no cost in the
prescriber’s office, or any form of assistance from the manufacturer
sponsored support program (e.g., sample card which can be redeemed at a
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
pharmacy for a free supply of medication) as a means to establish as a
current user of Orenitram or Uptravi
-AND-
(c) Patient is not taking Orenitram or Uptravi in combination with a
prostanoid/prostacyclin analogue (e.g., epoprostenol, iloprost, treprostinil)
-AND-
(d) Prescribed by or in consultation with a cardiologist, pulmonologist, or
rheumatologist
–OR-
(2) All of the following:
(a) One of the following:
(i) Both of the following:
(a) Pulmonary arterial hypertension is symptomatic
(b) Diagnosis of pulmonary arterial hypertension that is confirmed by
right heart catheterization
-OR-
(ii) Patient is currently on any therapy for the diagnosis of pulmonary
arterial hypertension
-AND-
(b) History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to both of the
following:a
(i) One of the following:
(a) A PDE-5 inhibitor [e.g., sildenafil citrate (generic Revatio), tadalafil
(generic Adcirca)]
(b) Adempas
-AND-
(ii) An ERA [e.g., ambrisentan (generic Letairis*), Opsumit, or bosentan
(generic Tracleer)]
-AND-
(c) Patient is not taking Orenitram or Uptravi in combination with a
prostanoid/prostacyclin analogue (e.g., epoprostenol, iloprost, treprostinil)
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4
-AND-
(d) Prescribed by or in consultation with a cardiologist, pulmonologist or
rheumatologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Adempas, Opsumit, Opsynvi*, Letairis*, Tracleer, Tyvaso, Tyvaso DPI, or
Ventavis will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Documentation the patient is receiving clinical benefit to Adempas, Opsumit,
Opsynvi*, Letairis*, Tracleer, Tyvaso, Tyvaso DPI, or Ventavis therapy.
b. Revatio* oral powder for suspension, Liqrev oral suspension*, or Tadliq oral
suspension will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation the patient is receiving clinical benefit to Revatio* oral powder
for suspension, Liqrev oral suspension*, or Tadliq oral suspension therapy.
-AND-
(2) Patient remains unable to ingest a solid dosage form (e.g., an oral tablet) due to
one of the following:
(a) age
(b) oral-motor difficulties
(c) dysphagia
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
c. Orenitram or Uptravi will be approved based on both of the following
criteria:
(1) Documentation the patient is receiving clinical benefit to Orenitram or
Uptravi therapy.
-AND-
(2) Patient is not taking Orenitram or Uptravi in combination with a
prostanoid/prostacyclin analogue (e.g., epoprostenol, iloprost, treprostinil)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Chronic Thromboembolic Pulmonary Hypertension (CTEPH)
1. Initial Authorization
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
5
a. Adempas will be approved based on one of the following criteria:
(1) All of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of inoperable or persistent/recurrent chronic thromboembolic
pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH)
-AND-
(b) CTEPH is symptomatic
-AND-
(c) Prescribed by or in consultation with a cardiologist, pulmonologist, or
rheumatologist
-OR-
(2) Both of the following:
(a) Patient is currently on any therapy for the diagnosis of CTEPH
-AND-
(b) Prescribed by or in consultation with a cardiologist, pulmonologist, or
rheumatologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Adempas will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Documentation the patient is receiving clinical benefit to Adempas therapy.
Authorization will be issued for 12months.
C. Pulmonary Hypertension Associated with Interstitial Lung Disease
1. Initial Authorization
a. Tyvaso or Tyvaso DPI will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) All of the following13:
(a) Diagnosis of pulmonary hypertension associated with interstitial lung
disease (WHO group 3) confirmed by right heart catheterization
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
6
(b) Interstitial lung disease is diagnosed based on evidence of diffuse
parenchymal lung disease on computed tomography of the chest
(c) Pulmonary hypertension is symptomatic
-AND-
(2) Prescribed by or in consultation with a cardiologist, pulmonologist, or
rheumatologist.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Tyvaso or Tyvaso DPI will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Tyvaso or Tyvaso DPI therapy
(e.g., improved exercise ability)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
*Brand Letairis, Liqrev oral suspension, Opsynvi, and Revatio oral powder for suspension are
typically excluded from coverage. Tried/Failed criteria may be in place. Please refer to plan specifics
to determine exclusion status.
Additional Information regarding the endothelin receptor antagonists (Letairis*, Opsumit,
Opsynvi*, and Tracleer): These agents should be used with caution in patients with liver disease.
Use is not recommended in moderate to severe hepatic impairment. Tracleer product labeling
includes a black box warning regarding the risk of liver injury. Prescribers are cautioned to consider
whether benefits of use offset the risk of liver injury in WHO Class II patients. Early liver injury
may preclude future use as disease progresses. 3
Additional Information regarding the oral PDE-5 inhibitors (Liqrev*, Opsynvi*, Revatio
powder for oral suspension*, and Tadliq): Administration of the oral PDE-5 inhibitors to patients
taking any form of organic nitrate, either regularly or intermittently, is contraindicated.4,5, 13,14 In
addition, the concomitant administration of oral PDE-5 inhibitors with Adempas is contraindicated.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim
logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or
therapeutic class.
• Supply limitations may be in place.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
7
4. References:
1. Pugh ME, Hemnes AR, Robbins IM. Combination therapy in pulmonary arterial hypertension.
Clin Chest Med. 2013 Dec ;34(4) :841-55.
2. Letairis [package insert]. Foster City, CA : Gilead Sciences, Inc; August 2019.
3. Tracleer [package insert]. South San Francisco, CA: Actelion Pharmaceuticals US, Inc.; July
2022.
4. Revatio [package insert]. New York, NY: Pfizer Labs; January 2023.
5. Ventavis [package insert]. Titusville, NJ: Actelion Pharmaceuticals US, Inc.; March 2022.
6. Tyvaso [package insert]. Research Triangle Park, NC: United Therapeutics Corp.; May 2022.
7. Opsumit [package insert]. South San Francisco, CA: Actelion Pharmaceuticals US Inc.; June
2023.
8. Orenitram [package insert]. Research Triangle Park, NC: United Therapeutics Corp.; August
2023.
9. Adempas [package insert]. Whippany, NJ: Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc.; September
2021.
10. Taichman D, Ornelas J, Chung L, et al. Pharmacologic Therapy for Pulmonary Arterial
Hypertension in Adults. CHEST 2014;146(2):449-475.
11. Uptravi [package insert]. South San Francisco, CA: Actelion Pharmaceuticals US, Inc; July
2022.
12. Waxman, A., Restrepo-Jaramillo, R., et al. Inhaled Treprostinil in Pulmonary Hypertension
Due to Interstitial Lung Disease. N Engl J Med. 2021 Jan 28;384(4):325-334.
13. Tyvaso DPI [package insert]. Research Triangle Park, NC: United Therapeutics Corp.; June
2023.
14. Tadliq [package insert]. Farmville, NC: CMP Pharma, Inc.; October 2023.
15. Liqrev [package insert]. Farmville, NC: CMP Pharma, Inc.; April 2023.
16. Opsynvi [package insert]. Titusville, NJ: Actelion Pharmaceuticals US Inc.; March 2024.
17. Humbert, M, Kovacs G, et al. 2022 ESC/ERS Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of
pulmonary hypertension. European Respiratory Journal Jan 2022, 2200879
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – PAH Agents
Change Control
4/2014 New program.
12/2014 Added new step requirement for Adcirca, Adempas and Orenitram.
Added in criteria for Revatio solution
5/2015 Removed the diagnosis of PAH since we have changed it to Submission
of medical records documenting diagnosis of pulmonary arterial
hypertension that is confirmed by right heart catheterization.
Removed step for Adcirca and Adempas. Removed Tyvaso from
Orenitram step. Added Adempas as an alternative to the PDE5 I for the
Orenitram step. Decreased Orenitram initial authorization period to 6
months. Decreased Orenitram reauthorization period to 12 months.
For reauthorization criteria changed to “Documentation the patient
is receiving clinical benefit to therapy.”
1/2016 Added Uptravi to the criteria requiring patients to try PDE5/Adempas
and an ERA prior to obtaining Uptravi.
Changed authorization periods to 12 months due to new regulation and
to be consistent with all of the agents.
2/2016 Updated prescriber requirement
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
8
7/2016 Added Indiana and West Virginia coverage information.
11/2016 Added California coverage information.
12/2016 Updated background and references.
9/2017 Annual review. Removed medical records requirements and updated
sample pack language. Updated references. State mandate reference
language updated.
11/2017 Removal of authorization criteria for sildenafil tablets as tablet
formulation will no longer require prior authorization.
11/2018 Annual review. Added Adcirca brand tablets to exclusion. Updated
background and references.
11/2019 Annual review. Updated references.
11/2020 Annual review. Updated background information with no change to
clinical criteria. References updated.
6/2021 Added coverage criteria for additional Tyvaso indication. Updated
background and references.
6/2022 Changed Revatio solution to suspension. Added Revatio suspension and
Letairis brand tablets to exclusion. Added additional Letairis indication
to background. Added generic names to Orenitram/Uptravi step.
Updated references.
10/2022 Added coverage criteria for Tyvaso DPI formulation and Alyq per
prescribing information. Updated background and references.
12/2022 Added Tadliq oral suspension for PAH. Updated background and
references.
3/2023 Updated background with Revatio’s expanded indication in pediatric
patients with no change in coverage criteria. Updated references.
2/2024 Annual review. Added Liqrev oral suspension for PAH and updated
exclusion footnote. Updated background and references.
8/2024 Added coverage criteria for Opsynvi tablets for PAH. Added Opsynvi
to additional information section. Updated background and references.
11/2024 Removed Adcirca and Alyq from policy. Added Opsynvi to the list of
products that are typically excluded from coverage. Updated references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
9