UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 2309-2
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medications Tezspire™ (tezepelumab-ekko)*
*This program applies to the prefilled pen for self-administration
P&T Approval Date 7/2023, 7/2024
Effective Date 10/1/2024
1. Background:
Tezspire (tezepelumab) is indicated for the add-on maintenance treatment of adult and pediatric
patients aged 12 years and older with severe asthma.
Limitations of use:
Tezspire is not indicated for relief of acute bronchospasm of status asthmaticus.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Severe Asthma
1. Initial Authorization
a. Tezspire will be approved based on one of the following criteria:
(1) All of the following:
(a) Patient has been established on therapy with Tezspire under an active
UnitedHealthcare medical benefit prior authorization for the treatment of
severe asthma
-AND-
(b) Documentation of positive clinical response to Tezspire therapy as
demonstrated by at least one of the following:
i. Reduction in the frequency of exacerbations
ii. Decreased utilization of rescue medications
iii. Increase in percent predicted FEV1 from pretreatment baseline
iv. Reduction in severity or frequency of asthma-related symptoms (e.g.,
wheezing, shortness of breath, coughing, etc.)
-AND-
(c) Tezspire is being used in combination with an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)-
containing controller medication [e.g., Advair/AirDuo Respiclick
(fluticasone propionate/salmeterol), Symbicort (budesonide/formoterol),
Breo Ellipta (fluticasone furoate/vilanterol), Trelegy Ellipta (fluticasone
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
furoate/umeclidinium/vilanterol)]
-AND-
(d) Patient is not receiving Tezspire in combination with any of the following:
i. Anti-interleukin-5 therapy [e.g., Cinqair (resilizumab), Fasenra
(benralizumab), Nucala (mepolizumab)]
ii. Anti-IgE-therapy [e.g., Xolair (omalizumab)]
iii. Anti-interleukin-4 therapy [e.g., Dupixent (dupilumab)]
-AND-
(e) Prescribed by one of the following:
i. Allergist
ii. Immunologist
iii. Pulmonologist
-OR-
(2) All of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of severe asthma
-AND-
(b) Classification of asthma as uncontrolled or inadequately controlled as
defined by at least one of the following:
i. Poor symptom control (e.g., Asthma Control Questionnaire [ACQ]
score consistently greater than 1.5 or Asthma Control Test [ACT] score
consistently less than 20)
ii. Two or more bursts of systemic corticosteroids for at least 3 days each
in the previous 12 months
iii. Asthma-related emergency treatment (e.g., emergency room visit,
hospital admission, or unscheduled physician’s office visit for nebulizer
or other urgent treatment)
iv. Airflow limitation (e.g., after appropriate bronchodilator withhold
forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] less than 80% predicted
[in the face of reduced FEV1/forced vital capacity [FVC] defined as
less than the lower limit of normal])
v. Patient is currently dependent on oral corticosteroids for the treatment
of asthma
-AND-
(c) Tezspire will be used in combination with one of the following:
i. One maximally dosed (appropriately adjusted for age) combination
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting beta agonist (LABA) product
2
[e.g., Advair/AirDuo Respiclick (fluticasone propionate/salmeterol),
Symbicort (budesonide/formoterol), Breo Ellipta (fluticasone
furoate/vilanterol)]
-OR-
ii. Combination therapy including both of the following:
• One maximally dosed (appropriately adjusted for age) ICS product
[e.g., ciclesonide (Alvesco), mometasone furoate (Asmanex),
beclomethasone dipropionate (QVAR)]
-AND-
• One additional asthma controller medication [e.g., LABA -
olodaterol (Striverdi) or indacaterol (Arcapta); leukotriene receptor
antagonist – montelukast (Singulair); theophylline]
-AND-
(d) Patient is not receiving Tezspire in combination with any of the following:
i. Anti-interleukin 5 therapy [e.g., Cinqair (resilizumab), Fasenra
(benralizumab), Nucala (mepolizumab)]
ii. Anti-IgE therapy [e.g., Xolair (omalizumab)]
iii. Anti-interleukin 4 therapy [e.g., Dupixent (dupilumab)]
-AND-
(e) Prescribed by one of the following:
i. Allergist
ii. Immunologist
iii. Pulmonologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Tezspire will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Tezspire therapy as demonstrated
by at least one of the following:
(a) Reduction in the frequency of exacerbations
(b) Decreased utilization of rescue medications
(c) Increase in percent predicted FEV1 from pretreatment baseline
(d) Reduction in severity or frequency of asthma-related symptoms (e.g.,
wheezing, shortness of breath, coughing, etc.)
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
-AND-
(2) Tezspire is being used in combination with an ICS-containing controller
medication [e.g., Advair/AirDuo Respiclick (fluticasone propionate/salmeterol),
Symbicort (budesonide/formoterol), Breo Ellipta (fluticasone
furoate/vilanterol), Trelegy Ellipta (fluticasone
furoate/umeclidinium/vilanterol)]
-AND-
(3) Patient is not receiving Tezspire in combination with any of the following:
(a) Anti-interleukin-5 therapy [e.g., Cinqair (resilizumab), Fasenra
(benralizumab), Nucala (mepolizumab)]
(b) Anti-IgE therapy [e.g., Xolair (omalizumab)]
(c) Anti-interleukin-4 therapy [e.g., Dupixent (dupilumab)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Programs:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limitations may be in place.
• The single-dose vial and pre-filled syringe for administration by a healthcare professional is
typically covered under the medical benefit. Please refer to the United Healthcare Medical
Benefit Drug Policy: “Tezspire™ (tezepelumab-ekko).”
4. References:
1. Global Initiative for Asthma. Global Strategy for Asthma Management and Prevention, 2023.
Available at http://www.ginasthma.org. Accessed May 29, 2024.
2. Tran TN, Zeiger RS, Peters SP, et al. Overlap of atopic, eosinophilic, and TH2-high asthma
phenotypes in a general population with current asthma. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol.
2016;116(1):37-42. doi:10.1016/j.anai.2015.10.027.
3. Corren J, Ziegler SF. TSLP: from allergy to cancer. Nat Immunol. 2019;20(12):1603-1609.
doi:10.1038/s41590-019-0524-9.
4. Tezspire™ [package insert]. Thousand Oakes, CA: Amgen Inc.; May 2023.
5. Institute for Clinical and Economic Review (ICER). Tezepelumab for Severe Asthma.
November 4, 2021. Available at ICER | Working Towards Fair Pricing, Fair Access, &
Future Innovation. Accessed May 29, 2024.
6. Holguin F, Cardet JC, Chung KF, Diver S, Ferreira DS, Fitzpatrick A, Gaga M, Kellermeyer
L, Khurana S, Knight S, McDonald VM, Morgan RL, Ortega VE, Rigau D, Subbarao P,
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4
Tonia T, Adcock IM, Bleecker ER, Brightling C, Boulet LP, Cabana M, Castro M, Chanez P,
Custovic A, Djukanovic R, Frey U, Frankemölle B, Gibson P, Hamerlijnck D, Jarjour N,
Konno S, Shen H, Vitary C, Bush A. Management of severe asthma: a European Respiratory
Society/American Thoracic Society guideline. Eur Respir J. 2020 Jan 2;55(1):1900588. doi:
10.1183/13993003.00588-2019. PMID: 31558662
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity - Tezspire (tezepelumab)
Change Control
7/2023 New program.
7/2024 Annual review. Modified criteria for existing prior authorization for
under the medical benefit. Removed footnote disclaimer for step
therapy. Updated references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
5