UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2335-4
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Velsipity™ (etrasimod)*
*Velsipity is excluded from coverage for the majority of our benefits
P&T Approval Date 4/2024, 10/2024, 11/2024, 4/2025
Effective Date 6/1/2025
1. Background:
Velsipity (etrasimod) is a sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulator indicated for the
treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adults.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Velsipity will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (UC)
-AND-
b. One of the following:
(1) Patient has had prior or concurrent inadequate response to a therapeutic course
of oral corticosteroids and/or immunosuppressants (e.g., azathioprine, 6-
mercaptopurine)
-OR-
(2) Patient has been previously treated with a targeted immunomodulator FDA-
approved for the treatment of ulcerative colitis as documented by claims history
or submission of medical records (Document drug, date, and duration of
therapy) [e.g., adalimumab, Simponi (golimumab), ustekinumab, Xeljanz
(tofacitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib)]
-AND-
c. History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to three of the following
preferred products (document drug, date, and duration of trial):
(1) One of the preferred adalimumab productsb
(2) Entyvio (vedolizumab)
(3) Omvoh (mirikizumab-mrkz)
(4) Rinvoq (upadacitinib)
(5) Simponi (golimumab)
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
(6) Skyrizi (risankizumab)
(7) One of the preferred ustekinumab productsb
(8) Tremfya (guselkumab)
(9) Xeljanz/Xeljanz XR (tofacitinib)
-AND-
d. History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to Zeposia (ozanimod) (document
date and duration of trial):
-AND-
e. Patient is not receiving Velsipity in combination with a targeted
immunomodulator [e.g., Enbrel (etanercept), Cimzia (certolizumab), Simponi
(golimumab), Orencia (abatacept), adalimumab, Xeljanz (tofacitinib), Olumiant
(baricitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), ustekinumab, Skyrizi (risankizumab),
Omvoh (mirikizumab-mrkz), Entyvio (vedolizumab)]
-AND-
f. Prescribed by or in consultation with a gastroenterologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Velsipity will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Velsipity therapy
-AND-
b. Patient is not receiving Velsipity in combination with a targeted immunomodulator
[e.g., Enbrel (etanercept), Cimzia (certolizumab), Simponi (golimumab), Orencia
(abatacept), adalimumab, Xeljanz (tofacitinib), Olumiant (baricitinib), Rinvoq
(upadacitinib), ustekinumab, Skyrizi (risankizumab), Omvoh (mirikizumab-mrkz),
Entyvio (vedolizumab)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
b For a list of preferred products please reference drug coverage tools.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Exclusion: Velsipity is excluded from coverage for the majority of our benefits
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Velsipity [package insert]. New York, NY: Pfizer Inc.; November 2023.
2. Feuerstein JD, Isaacs KL, Schneider Y, et al. AGA clinical practice guidelines on the
management of moderate to severe ulcerative colitis. Gastroenterology. 2020; 158(5):1450-61.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Velsipity (etrasimod)
Change Control
4/2024 New program.
10/2024 Updated step requirement noting Adalimumab-adaz (unbranded
Hyrimoz), Amjevita for Nuvaila, and Humira as preferred adalimumab
products with no change to clinical intent. Removed preferred
adalimumab footnote. Added Entyvio, Omvoh and Skyrizi as step
therapy agents.
11/2024 Added Tremfya as a step therapy agent.
4/2025 Removed examples for adalimumab in step therapy. Changed Stelara
step therapy to “One of the preferred ustekinumab productsc”. Changed
Stelara example to Ustekinumab. Added the footnote “For a list of
preferred products please reference drug coverage tools.”
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3