UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2264-8
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Zeposia® (ozanimod)
P&T Approval Date 12/2021, 5/2022, 1/2023, 4/2023, 4/2024, 10/2024, 11/2024, 4/2025
Effective Date 6/1/2025
1. Background:
Zeposia® (ozanimod) is a sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulator indicated for the
treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), to include clinically isolated
syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease, in adults
and moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (UC) in adults.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Multiple Sclerosis
1. Authorization
a. Zeposia will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (MS)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Ulcerative Colitis (UC)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Zeposia will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of moderately to severely active UC
-AND-
(2) One of the following:
(a) Patient has had prior or concurrent inadequate response to a therapeutic
course of oral corticosteroids and/or immunosuppressants (e.g.,
azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine)
-OR-
(b) Patient has been previously treated with a biologic or targeted synthetic
DMARD FDA-approved for the treatment of ulcerative colitis as
documented by claims history or submission of medical records (Document
drug, date, and duration of therapy) [e.g., adalimumab, Simponi
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
(golimumab), ustekinumab, Xeljanz (tofacitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib)].
-AND-
(3) One of the following:
(a) History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to two of the following
preferred products (document drug, date, and duration of trial):
i. One of the preferred adalimumab productsb
ii. Entyvio (vedolizumab)
iii. Omvoh (mirikizumab-mrkz)
iv. Rinvoq (upadacitinib)
v. Simponi (golimumab)
vi. Skyrizi (risankizumab)
vii. One of the preferred ustekinumab productsb
viii. Tremfya (guselkumab)
ix. Xeljanz/Xeljanz XR (tofacitinib)
-OR-
(b) Both of the following:
i. Patient is currently on Zeposia therapy as documented by claims history
or submission of medical records (Document drug, date, and duration of
therapy):
-AND-
ii. Patient has not received a manufacturer supplied sample at no cost in the
prescriber’s office, or any form of assistance from the Bristol Myers
Squibb sponsored Zeposia 360 Support Program (e.g. sample card which
can be redeemed at a pharmacy for a free supply of medication) as a
means to establish as a current user of Zeposia*
-AND-
(4) Patient is not receiving Zeposia in combination with a targeted
immunomodulator [e.g., adalimumab, Enbrel (etanercept), Cimzia
(certolizumab), Simponi (golimumab), Orencia (abatacept), Xeljanz
(tofacitinib), Olumiant (baricitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), ustekinumab,
Skyrizi (risankizumab), Omvoh (mirikizumab-mrkz), Entyvio
(vedolizumab)]
-AND-
(5) Prescribed by or in consultation with a gastroenterologist
*Patients requesting initial authorization who were established on therapy via the receipt of a
manufacturer supplied sample at no cost in the prescriber’s office or any form of assistance from
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
the Bristol Myers Squibb sponsored Zeposia 360 Support Program shall be required to meet
initial authorization criteria as if patient were new to therapy.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Zeposia will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Zeposia therapy
-AND-
(2) Patient is not receiving Zeposia in combination with another targeted
immunomodulator [e.g., adalimumab, Enbrel (etanercept), Cimzia
(certolizumab), Simponi (golimumab), Orencia (abatacept), Xeljanz
(tofacitinib), Olumiant (baricitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), ustekinumab,
Skyrizi (risankizumab), Omvoh (mirikizumab-mrkz), Entyvio (vedolizumab)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
b For a list of preferred products please reference drug coverage tools.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Zeposia [package insert]. Summit, NJ: Celegene Corporation; August 2023.
2. Feuerstein JD, Isaacs KL, Schneider Y, et al. AGA clinical practice guidelines on the
management of moderate to severe ulcerative colitis. Gastroenterology. 2020; 158(5):1450-61.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Zeposia® (ozanimod)
Change Control
12/2021 New program.
5/2022 Added Xeljanz and Rinvoq as preferred products for failure,
contraindication, or intolerance for Ulcerative Colitis and added Rinvoq
as an example of JAK inhibitor. Updated reference.
1/2023 Updated step therapy requirements to Humira or Amjevita. Updated
listed examples from Humira to adalimumab.
4/2023 Updated step therapy requirement from Humira or Amjevita to one of
the preferred adalimumab products and added the footnote “For a list of
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
preferred adalimumab products please reference drug coverage tools.”
4/2024 Annual review. Updated not used in combination examples with no
change to clinical intent. Updated reference.
10/2024 Updated step requirement noting Adalimumab-adaz (unbranded
Hyrimoz), Amjevita for Nuvaila, and Humira as preferred adalimumab
products with no change to clinical intent. Removed preferred
adalimumab footnote. Added Entyvio, Omvoh and Skyrizi as step
therapy agents.
11/2024 Added Tremfya as a step therapy agent.
4/2025 Removed examples for adalimumab in step therapy. Changed Stelara
step therapy to “One of the preferred ustekinumab productsc”. Changed
Stelara example to Ustekinumab. Added the footnote “For a list of
preferred products please reference drug coverage tools.”
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4