UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2370-1
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Vanrafia™ (atrasentan)
P&T Approval Date 6/2025
Effective Date 9/1/2025
1. Background:
Vanrafia (atrasentan) is indicated to reduce proteinuria in adults with primary immunoglobulin A
nephropathy (IgAN) at risk of rapid disease progression, generally a urine protein-to-creatinine ratio
(UPCR) ≥ 1.5 g/g.
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on a reduction of proteinuria. It has not
been established whether Vanrafia slows kidney function decline in patients with IgAN. Continued
approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in
a confirmatory clinical trial.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Vanrafia will be approved based on all of the following:
a. Diagnosis of primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) confirmed by renal biopsy
-AND-
b. Patient is at risk of disease progression
-AND-
c. Used to slow kidney function decline
-AND-
d. Used to reduce proteinuria
-AND-
e. Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) ≥ 30 mL/min/1.73 m2
-AND-
f. Both of the following:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
1) Patient is on a maximized stable dose with one of the following prior to initiating
therapy:
a) maximally tolerated angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (e.g.,
captopril, enalapril)
b) maximally tolerated angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) (e.g., candesartan,
valsartan)
-AND-
2) Use of endothelin receptor antagonists [(ERAs) e.g., Letairis, Opsumit, Tracleer)]
will be discontinued prior to initiating treatment
-AND-
g. History of failure, contraindication or intolerance to a 30-day trial of a glucocorticoid
(e.g., methylprednisolone, prednisone)
-AND-
h. Prescribed by or in consultation with a nephrologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
B. Reauthorization
1. Vanrafia will be approved based on the following:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response demonstrated by a reduction in proteinuria
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Vanrafia [package insert]. East Hanover, NJ: Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation; April 2025.
2. KDIGO 2021 Glomerular Diseases Guideline. October 2021; 100 (4S).
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Vanrafia
Change Control
Date Change
6/2025 New program
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
3