UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 2272-4
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Voxzogo™ (vosoritide)
P&T Approval Date 3/2022, 3/2023, 12/2023, 12/2024
Effective Date 3/1/2025
1. Background:
Voxzogo (vosoritide) is a C type natriuretic peptide (CNP) analog indicated to increase linear
growth in pediatric patients with achondroplasia with open epiphyses. This indication is
approved under accelerated approval based on an improvement in annualized growth
velocity. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and
description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trial(s).
Coverage will be provided for members who meet the following criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Voxzogo will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Patient is less than 18 years of age
-AND-
b. Diagnosis of achondroplasia as confirmed by one of the following:
(1) Submission of medical records documenting both of the following:
(a) Patient has clinical manifestations characteristic of achondroplasia (e.g.,
macrocephaly, frontal bossing, midface retrusion, disproportionate short
stature with rhizomelic shortening of the arms and the legs, brachydactyly,
trident configuration of the hands, thoracolumbar kyphosis, and
accentuated lumbar lordosis)
-AND-
(b) Patient has radiographic findings characteristic of achondroplasia (e.g.,
large calvaria and narrowing of the foramen magnum region,
undertubulated, shortened long bones with metaphyseal abnormalities,
narrowing of the interpedicular distance of the caudal spine, square ilia and
horizontal acetabula, small sacrosciatic notches, proximal scooping of the
femoral metaphyses, and short and narrow chest)
-OR-
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
(2) Submission of medical records documenting molecular genetic testing
confirmed c.1138G>A or c.1138G>C variant (i.e., p.Gly380Arg mutation) in the
fibroblast growth factor receptor-3 (FGFR3) gene
-AND-
c. Patient has open epiphyses
-AND-
d. Both of the following:
(1) Patient has not had limb-lengthening surgery in the previous 18 months
(2) Patient does not plan to have limb-lengthening surgery while on Voxzogo
-AND-
e. Prescribed by one of the following:
(1) Clinical geneticist
(2) Endocrinologist
(3) A practitioner who has specialized expertise in the management of
achondroplasia
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Voxzogo will be approved based on all the following criteria:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Voxzogo therapy (e.g., improvement
in annualized growth velocity (AGV) compared to baseline)
-AND-
b. Patient has open epiphyses
-AND-
c. Patient does not plan to have limb-lengthening surgery while on Voxzogo
-AND-
d. Prescribed by or in consultation with one of the following:
(1) Clinical geneticist
(2) Endocrinologist
(3) A practitioner who has specialized expertise in the management of
achondroplasia
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-
10) and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Voxzogo [package insert]. Novato, CA: BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc.; October 2023.
2. Pauli RM. Achondroplasia: a comprehensive clinical review. Orphanet J Rare Dis
2019;14(1):1-49.
3. Hoover-Fong J, Scott CI, Jones MC; COMMITTEE ON GENETICS. Health Supervision
for People With Achondroplasia. Pediatrics. 2020;145(6):e20201010.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Voxzogo (vosoritide)
Change Control
3/2022 New program
3/2023 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated
references.
12/2023 Updated background and coverage criteria with expanded indication in
pediatric patients of all ages. Updated references.
12/2024 Annual review. Updated wording of open epiphyses requirement in
reauthorization criteria with no change to clinical intent. Updated
references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3