UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2282-4
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Radicava ORS® (edaravone)
P&T Approval Date 7/2022, 7/2023, 7/2024, 3/2025
Effective Date 6/1/2025
1. Background:
Radicava ORS® is indicated for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).1
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Radicava ORS will be approved based on one of the following criteria:
a. Both of the following criteria:
(1) Patient has been established on therapy with edaravone for amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis under an active UnitedHealthcare medical benefit prior authorization
-AND-
(2) All of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of ALS
(b) Prescribed by, or in consultation with, a neurologist with expertise in the
diagnosis of ALS
(c) Patient is currently receiving edaravone therapy
(d) Patient is not dependent on invasive ventilation
-OR-
b. All of the following criteria:
(1) Submission of medical records (e.g., chart notes, previous medical history,
diagnostic testing including: imaging, nerve conduction studies, laboratory
values) to support the diagnosis of ALS
-AND-
(2) Prescribed by, or in consultation with, a neurologist with expertise in the
diagnosis of ALS
-AND-
(3) Submission of the most recent ALS Functional Rating Scale-Revised
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
(ALSFRS-R) score confirming that the patient has scores ≥ 2 in all items of the
ALSFRS-R criteria at the start of treatment
-AND-
(4) Submission of medical records (e.g., chart notes, laboratory values) confirming
that the patient has a % forced vital capacity (%FVC) ≥ 80% at the start of
treatment
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Radicava ORS will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of ALS
-AND-
b. Prescribed by, or in consultation with, a neurologist with expertise in the diagnosis
of ALS
-AND-
c. Patient is currently receiving Radicava ORS therapy
-AND-
d. Patient is not dependent on invasive ventilation
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Radicava ORS [package insert]. Jersey City, NJ: Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation.
November 2022.
2. Subcommittee on Motor Neuron Diseases of World Federation of Neurology Research Group on
Neuromuscular Diseases, El Escorial “Clinical Limits of ALS” Workshop Contributors. El
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
Escorial World Federation of Neurology criteria for the diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis. J Neurol Sci 1994; 124: 96–107.
3. Takahashi F, Takei K, Tsuda K, Palumbo J. Post-hoc analysis of MCI186-17, the extension study
to MCI186-16, the confirmatory double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-control006Ced study of
edaravone in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis and Frontotemporal
Degeneration. 2017;18(sup1):32-39.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Radicava ORS® (edaravone)
Change Control
7/2022 New program.
7/2023 Annual review with no changes to the coverage criteria.
7/2024 Annual review. Clarified criteria for existing prior authorization for
under the medical benefit. Updated initial authorization and
reauthorization to 12 months.
3/2025 Updated reference to Radicava IV to reflect that edaravone IV is
available generically. Simplified diagnosis requirement. Updated
invasive ventilation requirement with no change to clinical intent.
Updated references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3