UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2325-2
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Cuvrior™ (trientine tetrahydrochloride)*
P&T Approval Date 2/2024, 2/2025
Effective Date 5/1/2025
1. Background:
Cuvrior (trientine tetrahydrochloride) is a copper chelator indicated for the treatment of adult
patients with Wilson’s disease who are de-coppered and tolerant to penicillamine. Chelating
agents (e.g., pencillamine, trientine hydrochloride) are well-established as the standard treatment
of Wilson’s disease. Cuvrior (trientine tetrahydrochloride) has only been studied for maintenance
treatment in patients with Wilson’s disease who are pencillamine tolerant.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Cuvrior* will be approved based upon all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of Wilson’s disease
-AND-
b. Patient is de-coppered [i.e., serum non-ceruloplasmin copper (NCC) level ≥ 25 and ≤
150 mcg/L]
-AND-
c. Patient is tolerant to penicillamine
-AND-
d. Patient will discontinue penicillamine before starting therapy with Cuvrior
-AND-
e. History of intolerance, failure or contraindication to trientine hydrochloride
-AND-
f. Prescribed by a hepatologist.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
B. Reauthorization
1. Cuvrior will be approved based on both the following criteria:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Cuvrior therapy (e.g., increased 24-hour
urinary copper excretion from baseline, normalization of serum free copper, prevention
of or improvement in symptoms)
-AND-
b. Prescribed by a hepatologist.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
*Cuvrior is typically excluded from coverage. Tried/Failed criteria may be in place. Please refer to plan
specifics to determine exclusion status.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. Reference:
1. Cuvrior [package insert]. Chicago, IL: Orphalan; April 2022.
2. Trientine hydrochloride [package insert]. Parsippany, NJ: Teva Pharmaceuticals; January 2022.
3. Schilsky ML, Roberts EA, Bronstein JM, et al. A multidisciplinary approach to the diagnosis and
management of Wilson disease: 2022 Practice Guidance on Wilson disease from the American
Association for the Study of Liver Diseases. Hepatology. Published online December 7, 2022.
4. Saroli Palumbo C, Schilsky ML. Clinical practice guidelines in Wilson disease. Ann Transl Med.
2019;7(Suppl 2):S65.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity - Cuvrior (trientine
tetrahydrochloride)
Change Control
2/2024 New program.
2/2025 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated background
and references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2