UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 2353-1
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication *Zymfentra (infliximab-dyyb)
*Zymfentra is excluded from coverage for the majority of our benefits
P&T Approval Date 10/2024
Effective Date 1/1/2025
1. Background:
Zymfentra (infliximab-dyyb) is a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker indicated in adults for
maintenance treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis following treatment
with an infliximab product administered intravenously and moderately to severely active
Crohn’s disease following treatment with an infliximab product administered intravenously.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Ulcerative Colitis
1. Zymfentra* provides similar efficacy as intravenous administration of infliximab products;
therefore, Zymfentra is not medically necessary for treatment of ulcerative colitis since its use is
mainly for convenience as compared to intravenous administration of infliximab.
All requests for authorization will be denied.
B. Crohn’s Disease
1. Zymfentra* provides similar efficacy as intravenous administration of infliximab products;
therefore, Zymfentra is not medically necessary for treatment of Crohn’s disease since its use is
mainly for convenience as compared to intravenous administration of infliximab.
All requests for authorization will be denied.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Exclusion: Zymfentra is excluded from coverage for the majority of our benefits
• Supply limits may be in place.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
4. References:
1. Zymfentra [package insert]. Jersey City, NJ: Celltrion USA, Inc.; February 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Zymfentra (infliximab-dyyb)
Change Control
10/2024 New program.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2