UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 2214-5
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medications Albuterol tablets
P&T Approval Date 7/2020, 7/2021, 7/2022, 7/2023, 7/2024
Effective Date 10/1/2024
1. Background:
Albuterol tablets are indicated for the relief of bronchchospasm in adults and children 6 years of
age and older with reversible obstructive airway disease. Guidelines do not recommend the use of
albuterol tablets and note they have a higher risk of side-effects. In addition, guidelines note that
there are no long-term safety studies that have been performed to assess the risk of severe
exacerbations with albuterol tablets in patients not also taking an inhaled corticosteroid.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Albuterol tablets will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of obstructive airway disease (e.g., asthma)
-AND-
b. Patient’s obstructive airway disease is being managed with both of the following:
1) One of the following controller medications:
a) An inhaled corticosteroid (e.g., Arnuity Ellipta, QVAR RediHaler)
b) An inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist [e.g.,
fluticasone/salmeterol (generic Advair Diskus), Advair HFA, Breo Ellipta,
Symbicort)
c) Spiriva HandiHaler/Respimat
d) A long-acting muscarinic antagonist/long-acting beta-agonist (e.g., Anoro
Ellipta, Bevespi Aerosphere)
-AND-
2) History of failure, contraindication or intolerance to an inhaled short-acting beta-
agonist [e.g., albuterol HFA (generic ProAir HFA, generic Proventil HFA)]
-AND-
c. Prescriber attests that the benefits outweigh the risk
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
B. Reauthorization
1. Albuterol tablets will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Programs:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
4. References:
1. Albuterol tablets [package insert]. Cranbury, NJ: Sun Pharmaceutical Industries, Inc: July 2014.
2. Asthma Management and Prevention. Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA). 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Albuterol tablets
Change Control
7/2020 New program.
7/2021 Annual review. Updated the example used for the inhaled short-acting
beta-agonist.
7/2022 Annual review. Updated references.
7/2023 Annual review. Updated references.
7/2024 Annual review. Updated medication examples in criteria.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2