UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2285-6
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Vemlidy® (tenofovir alafenamide)*
P&T Approval Date 8/2022, 11/2022, 11/2023, 2/2024, 5/2024, 5/2025
Effective Date 8/1/2025
1. Background
Vemlidy (tenofovir alafenamide) is a hepatitis B virus (HBV) nucleoside analogue reverse
transcriptase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection
in adults and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older and weighing at least 25 kg with
compensated liver disease.
Entecavir (generic Baraclude) is an HBV nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor
indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus infection in adults and children at least
2 years of age with evidence of active viral replication and either evidence of persistent
elevations in serum aminotransferases (ALT or AST) or histologically active disease.
Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (generic Viread) is an HBV nucleoside analogue reverse
transcriptase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults and pediatric
patients 2 years of age and older weighing at least 10 kg.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Treatment of Chronic Hepatitis B Infection:
1. Initial Authorization
a. Vemlidy* will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of chronic hepatitis B infectionb
-AND-
(2) Both of the following:
(a) Submission of medical records documenting one of the following:
i. Patient has a history of adverse event or intolerance to entecavir
(generic Baraclude)
-OR-
ii. Patient is not a suitable candidate for entecavir (generic Baraclude)
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
(b) One of the following:
i. Submission of medical records documenting a history of adverse event
or intolerance to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (generic Viread)*
-OR-
ii. Submission of medical records documenting an estimated glomerular
filtration rate below 90 mL/min
-OR-
iii. Submission of medical records documenting a diagnosis of osteopenia
as defined by a BMD T-score between -1 and -2.5 (BMD T-score
greater than -2.5 and less than or equal to -1) based on BMD
measurements from lumbar spine (at least two vertebral bodies), hip
(femoral neck, total hip), or radius (one-third radius site) [Provider must
submit patient specific BMD T-scores] with evidence of progressive
bone loss on serial DEXA scan
-OR-
iv. Submission of medical records documenting a diagnosis of osteoporosis
as defined by a BMD T-score ≤ -2.5 based on BMD measurements from
lumbar spine (at least two vertebral bodies), hip (femoral neck, total
hip), or radius (one-third radius site) [Provider must submit patient
specific BMD T-score]
-OR-
v. Submission of medical records documenting a prior low-trauma or non-
traumatic fracture
-OR-
vi. Patient is less than 20 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Vemlidy will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Vemlidy therapyb
-AND-
(2) Patient is not a suitable candidate for entecavir (generic Baraclude) or
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (generic Viread).
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
b Plans sitused in Nevada are not subject to clinical criteria. Only step therapy may be required.
*Vemlidy and Brand Viread are typically excluded from coverage. Tried/Failed criteria may be in
place. Please refer to plan specifics to determine exclusion status.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place
4. References:
1. Vemlidy [package insert]. Foster City, CA: Gilead Sciences, Inc.; March 2024.
2. Baraclude [package insert]. Princeton, NJ: Brisol-Myers Squibb Company; November 2019.
3. Viread [package insert]. Foster City, CA: Gilead Sciences, Inc.; April 2019.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Vemlidy® (tenofovir
alafenamide)
Change Control
8/2022 New program
11/2022 Updated language for prior use of entecavir and generic Viread.
11/2023 Annual review with no changes to clinical coverage criteria. Updated
background and references.
2/2024 Added Nevada footnote.
5/2024 Updated background with expanded indication in patients 6 to 11 years
of age weighing at least 25 kg. Updated reference.
5/2025 Annual review with no changes.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
3