UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 2347-1
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Xolremdi™ (mavorixafor)
P&T Approval Date 8/2024
Effective Date 10/15/2024
1. Background:
Xolremdi™ (mavorixafor) is a CXC chemokine receptor 4 antagonist indicated in patients 12
years of age and older with WHIM syndrome (warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, infections and
myelokathexis) to increase the number of circulating mature neutrophils and lymphocytes.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Xolremdi will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of WHIM (warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, infections and
myelokathexis) syndrome
-AND-
b. Patient has a genotype-confirmed mutation of chemokine (C-X-C motif) receptor 4
(CXCR4) consistent with WHIM phenotype
-AND-
c. Patient has an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) less than or equal to 500 cells /µL
-AND-
d. Prescribed by or in consultation with one of the following:
(1) Allergist
(2) Geneticist
(3) Hematologist
(4) Immunologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Xolremdi will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
a. Documentation of positive clinical response [e.g., improvement in absolute
neutrophil counts (ANC), improvement in absolute lymphocyte counts (ALC),
reduction in infections] to Xolremdi therapy
-AND-
e. Prescribed by or in consultation with one of the following:
(1) Allergist
(2) Geneticist
(3) Hematologist
(4) Immunologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Notification and Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Xolremdi [package insert]. Boston, MA: X4 Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; April 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity- Xolremdi™ (mavorixafor)
Change Control
8/2024 New program.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2