UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2343-2
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Winrevair™ (sotatercept-csrk)
P&T Approval Date 6/2024, 6/2025
Effective Date 9/1/2025
1. Background:
Winrevair (sotatercept-csrk) is an activin signaling inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults
with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH, WHO Group 1) to increase exercise capacity,
improve WHO functional class (FC) and reduce the risk of clinical worsening events.1
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Winrevair will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. One of the following:
(1) All of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH)
-AND-
(b) PAH has been confirmed by right heart catheterization
-AND-
(c) Prescriber attestation that other types of pulmonary hypertension (PH) are
excluded as a diagnosis
-AND-
(d) Pulmonary arterial hypertension is symptomatic
-OR-
(2) Both of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of pulmonary arterial hypertension
-AND-
(b) Patient is currently on Winrevair therapy as documented by claims history
or submission of medical records (document date and duration of therapy)
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
-AND-
b. One of the following:
(1) Both of the following:
(a) Patient has a cardiopulmonary comorbidity (e.g., obesity, hypertension,
diabetes mellitus, coronary heart disease)
-AND-
(b) Patient is currently taking at least one of the following oral therapies:
i. Endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) [e.g., ambrisentan, bosentan,
Opsumit (macitentan)]
ii. Phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor (PDE5i) (e.g., sildenafil, tadalafil)
-OR-
(2) Both of the following:
(a) Patient does not have a cardiopulmonary comorbidity (e.g., obesity,
hypertension, diabetes mellitus, coronary heart disease)
-AND-
(b) Patient is currently taking oral combination therapy with both of the
following:
i. Endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) [e.g., ambrisentan, bosentan,
Opsumit (macitentan)]
ii. One of the following:
• Phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor (PDE5i) (e.g., sildenafil, tadalafil)
• Soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator (sGC) [e.g., Adempas
(riociguat)]
-AND-
c. Prescribed by, or in consultation with, a cardiologist, pulmonologist, or
rheumatologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Winrevair will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
a. Documentation of a positive clinical response to Winrevair therapy [e.g.,
improvement in symptoms of right heart failure, exercise tolerance, six-minute
walk distance (6MWD), resting and ambulatory oximetry]
-AND-
b. Prescribed by, or in consultation with, a cardiologist, pulmonologist, or
rheumatologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-
10) and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limitations may be in place.
4. References:
1. Winrevair [package insert]. Rahway, NJ: Merck & Co., Inc; March 2024.
2. Humbert M, Kovacs G, Hoeper MM, et al. 2022 ESC/ERS Guidelines for the diagnosis
and treatment of pulmonary hypertension. Eur Heart J 2022; 43:3618.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Winrevair™ (sotatercept-csrk)
Change Control
6/2024 New program.
6/2025 Annual review. No changes to coverage criteria
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3