UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2305-3
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Joenja® (leniolisib)
P&T Approval Date 5/2023, 5/2024, 5/2025
Effective Date 8/1/2025
1. Background:
Joenja (leniolisib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment activated phosphoinositide
3-kinase delta (PI3Kẟ) syndrome (APDS) in adult and pediatric patients 12 years of age and
older.1
APDS is a rare primary immunodeficiency caused by variations in the genes encoding subunits of
the PI3Kẟ enzyme complex and PI3Kẟ hyperactivity. PI3Kẟ hyperactivity results in altered
development of B and T-cell which can lead to severe lymphoproliferation, recurrent infections,
autoimmune disorders, and malignancies. APDS can be characterized by a variety of symptoms,
including recurrent respiratory tract infections (e.g., pneumonia, otitis media, rhinosinusitis),
recurrent herpesvirus infections (e.g., Epstein Barr virus, cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex virus),
lymphoproliferation (e.g., lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly), autoimmune cytopenia and
glomerulonephritis, and neurodevelopmental delay. A definitive diagnosis can be made through
genetic testing. Current standard of care includes antimicrobial prophylaxis (e.g.,
trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, azithromycin), immunoglobulin replacement therapy (IRT),
immunosuppressive therapy (e.g., glucocorticoids, rituximab), and hematopoietic stem cell
transplant (HSCT).4
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Joenja will be approved based upon all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of activated phosphoinositide 3-kinase delta syndrome (APDS)
-AND-
b. Diagnosis has been confirmed by the presence of an APDS-associated genetic variant in
either PIK3CD or PIK3R1.
-AND-
c. Documentation of other clinical findings and manifestations consistent with APDS (e.g.,
recurrent respiratory tract infections, recurrent herpesvirus infections, lymphadenopathy,
hepatosplenomegaly, autoimmune cytopenias)
-AND-
d. Patient has a history of trial and failure, intolerance or contraindication to current
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
standard of care for APDS (e.g., antimicrobial prophylaxis, immunoglobulin replacement
therapy, immunosuppressive therapy)
-AND-
e. Prescribed by one of the following:
1) Hematologist
2) Immunologist
-AND-
f. Both of the following:
1) Patient is 12 years of age or older
-AND-
2) Patient weighs greater than or equal to 45 kg
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Joenja will be approved based on all the following criterion:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Joenja therapy (e.g., reduced lymph node
size, increased naïve B-cell percentage, decreased frequency or severity of infections,
decreased frequency of hospitalizations)
-AND-
b. Prescribed by one of the following:
1) Hematologist
2) Immunologist
-AND-
c. Patient weighs greater than or equal to 45 kg
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. Reference:
1. Joenja [package insert]. Foster City, CA: Pharming Technologies, Inc.; March 2023.
2. Rao VK, Webster S, Šedivá A, et al. A randomized, placebo-controlled phase 3 trial of the PI3Kδ
inhibitor leniolisib for activated PI3Kδ syndrome. Blood. 2023;141(9):971-983.
3. Singh A, Joshi V, Jindal AK, Mathew B, Rawat A. An updated review on activated PI3 kinase
delta syndrome (APDS). Genes Dis. 2019 Oct 14;7(1):67-74.
4. Vanselow S, Wahn V, Schuetz C. Activated PI3Kδ syndrome - reviewing challenges in diagnosis
and treatment. Front Immunol. 2023 Jul 20;14:1208567.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity - Joenja (leniolisib)
Change Control
5/2023 New program.
5/2024 Annual review. Updated initial authorization duration to 12 months.
Updated references.
5/2025 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated
references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3