UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2161-7
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Arikayce® (amikacin liposome inhalation suspension)
P&T Approval Date 3/2019, 2/2020, 2/2021, 2/2022, 2/2023, 2/2024, 2/2025
Effective Date 5/1/2025
1. Background:
Arikayce is an aminoglycoside antibacterial indicated in adults who have limited or no alternative
treatment options, for the treatment of Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) lung disease as
part of a combination antibacterial drug regimen in patients who do not achieve negative sputum
cultures after a minimum of 6 consecutive months of a multidrug background regimen therapy.
As only limited clinical safety and effectiveness data for Arikayce are currently available, reserve
Arikayce for use in adults who have limited or no alternative treatment options. This drug is
indicated for use in a limited and specific population of patients.
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on achieving sputum culture
conversion (defined as 3 consecutive negative monthly sputum cultures) by Month 6. Clinical
benefit has not yet been established.
Arikayce has only been studied in patients with refractory MAC lung disease defined as patients
who did not achieve negative sputum cultures after a minimum of 6 consecutive months of a
multidrug background regimen therapy. The use of Arikayce is not recommended for patients
with non-refractory MAC lung disease.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Arikayce will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of refractory Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) lung disease
-AND-
b. Submission of medical records (e.g., chart notes, laboratory values) documenting
respiratory cultures positive for MAC within the previous 6 months.
-AND-
c. Submission of medical records (e.g., chart notes, laboratory values) documenting the
following [prescription claims history may be used in conjunction as documentation of
medication use, dose, and duration]:
(1) Patient has been receiving a multidrug background regimen containing at least two
of the following agents for a minimum of 6 consecutive months within the past 12
months:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
(a) Macrolide antibiotic [e.g., azithromycin, clarithromycin]
(b) Ethambutol
(c) Rifamycin antibiotic [e.g., rifampin, rifabutin]
-AND-
d. Patient will continue to receive a multidrug background regimen
-AND-
e. Documentation that the patient has not achieved negative sputum cultures after receipt
of a multidrug background regimen for a minimum of 6 consecutive months
-AND-
f. In vitro susceptibility testing of recent (within 6 months) positive culture documents
that the MAC isolate is susceptible to amikacin with a minimum inhibitory
concentration (MIC) of < 64 mcg/mL
-AND-
g. Prescribed by or in consultation with one of the following:
(1) Infectious disease specialist
(2) Pulmonologist
Authorization will be issued for 6 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Arikayce will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. One of the following:
(1) Documentation that the patient has achieved negative respiratory cultures
-OR-
(2) All of the following:
(a) Patient has not achieved negative respiratory cultures while on Arikayce
-AND-
(b) Physician attestation that patient has demonstrated clinical benefit while on
Arikayce
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
(c) In vitro susceptibility testing of most recent (within 6 months) positive culture
with available susceptibility testing documents that the MAC isolate is
susceptible to amikacin with a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of < 64
mcg/mL
-AND-
(d) Patient has not received greater than 12 months of Arikayce therapy with
continued positive respiratory cultures
-AND-
b. Submission of medical records (e.g., chart notes, laboratory values) documenting that the
patient continues to receive a multidrug background regimen containing at least two of
the following agents [prescription claims history may be used in conjunction as
documentation of medication use, dose, and duration]:
(1) Macrolide antibiotic [e.g., azithromycin, clarithromycin]
(2) Ethambutol
(3) Rifamycin antibiotic [e.g., rifampin, rifabutin]
-AND-
c. Prescribed by, or in consultation with one of the following:
(1) Infectious disease specialist
(2) Pulmonologist
Authorization will be issued for 6 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Arikayce [package insert]. Bridgewater, NJ: Insmed; February 2023.
2. Griffith DE, Aksamit T, Brown-Elliot BA, et al. An official ATS/IDSA statement: diagnosis,
treatment, and prevention of nontuberculous mycobacterial diseases. Am J Respir Crit Care Med.
2007;175:367-416.
3. Haworth CS, Banks J, Capstick T, et al. British thoracic society guidelines for the management
of non-tuberculous mycobacterial pulmonary disease. Thorax. 2017;72:ii1-ii64.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
4. Griffith DE, Eagle G, Thomson R, et al. Amikacin liposome inhalation suspension for treatment-
refractory lung disease caused by mycobacterium avium complex (CONVERT): a prospective,
open-label, randomized study. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2018; Sep 14. doi:
10.1164/rccm.201807-1318OC. [Epub ahead of print]
5. Kasperbauer S, Daley CL. Treatment of Mycobacterium avium complex lung infection in adults.
Bloom A (Ed). UpToDate . Waltham MA: UpToDate Inc. http://www.uptodate.com. Accessed
January 2, 2025.
6. Winthrop KL, Morimoto K, Castellotti PK, et al. An open-label extension study of amikacin
liposome inhalation suspension (ALIS) for treatment-refractory lung disease caused by
mycobacterium avium complex (MAC). Slides presented at: American College of Chest
Physicians Annual Meeting; October 19-23, 2019; New Orleans, Louisiana.
7. Daley CL, Iaccarino Jr JM, Lange C, et al. Treatment of Nontuberculous Mycobacterial
Pulmonary Disease: An Official ATS/ERS/ESCMID/IDSA Clinical Practice Guideline. Clinical
Infectious Diseases. 2020; 71(11):3023.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Arikayce® (amikacin liposome
inhalation suspension)
Change Control
4/2019 New program
2/2020 Updated reauthorization criteria providing coverage for patients with
clinical benefit yet have not achieved negative respiratory cultures after 6
months of therapy with Arikayce. Updated reference.
2/2021 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated references.
2/2022 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria.
2/2023 Annual review with no change to coverage criteria.
2/2024 Annual review with no change to coverage criteria.
2/2025 Annual review with no change to coverage criteria. Updated reference.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4