UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 2297-5
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Sotyktu™ (deucravacitinib)
P&T Approval Date 1/2023, 4/2023, 7/2023, 7/2024, 10/2024
Effective Date 1/1/2025
1. Background:
Sotyktu is a tyrosine kinase 2 (TYK2) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults with
moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy.
Limitations of Use:
Not recommended for use in combination with other potent immunosuppressants.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Plaque Psoriasis
1. Initial Authorization
a. Sotyktu will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis
-AND-
(2) One of the following:
(a) All of the following:
i. Greater than or equal to 3% body surface area involvement,
palmoplantar, facial, genital involvement, or severe scalp psoriasis
-AND-
ii. History of failure to one of the following topical therapies, unless
contraindicated or clinically significant adverse effects are experienced
(document drug, date, and duration of trial):
a. Corticosteroids (e.g., betamethasone, clobetasol, desonide)
b. Vitamin D analogs (e.g., calcitriol, calcipotriene)
c. Tazarotene
d. Calcineurin inhibitors (e.g., tacrolimus, pimecrolimus)
e. Anthralin
f. Coal tar
-AND-
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
iii. History of failure to a 3 month trial of methotrexate at maximally
indicated dose, unless contraindicated or clinically significant adverse
effects are experienced (document date and duration of trial)b
-OR-
(b) Patient has been previously treated with a targeted immunomodulator FDA-
approved for the treatment of plaque psoriasis as documented by claims
history or submission of medical records (Document drug, date, and
duration of therapy) [e.g., adalimumab, Cimzia (certolizumab), Enbrel
(etanercept), Otezla (apremilast), Skyrizi (risankizumab-rzaa), Stelara
(ustekinumab), Taltz (ixekizumab), Tremfya (guselkumab)]
-OR-
(c) Both of the following:
i. Patient is currently on Sotyktu therapy as documented by claims history or
submission of medical records (Document date and duration of therapy)
-AND-
ii. Patient has not received a manufacturer supplied sample at no cost in the
prescriber’s office, or any form of assistance from a manufacturer
sponsored program (e.g., sample card which can be redeemed at a
pharmacy for a free supply of medication) as a means to establish as a
current user of Sotyktu*
-AND-
(3) Patient is not receiving Sotyktu in combination with another targeted
immunomodulator [e.g., adalimumab, Bimzelx (bimekizumab-bkzx),
Cimzia (certolizumab), Cosentyx (secukinumab), Enbrel (etanercept),
Ilumya (tildrakizumab), Olumiant (baricitinib), Orencia (abatacept), Otezla
(apremilast), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Siliq (brodalumab), Simponi
(golimumab), Skyrizi (risankizumab), Stelara (ustekinumab), Taltz
(ixekizumab), Tremfya (guselkumab), Xeljanz (tofacitinib)]
-AND-
(4) Prescribed by or in consultation with a dermatologist
* Patients requesting initial authorization who were established on therapy via the
receipt of a manufacturer supplied sample at no cost in the prescriber’s office or any
form of assistance from a manufacturer sponsored program shall be required to meet
initial authorization criteria as if patient were new to therapy.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
2. Reauthorization
a. Sotyktu will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Sotyktu therapy
-AND-
(2) Patient is not receiving Sotyktu in combination with another targeted
immunomodulator [e.g., adalimumab, Bimzelx (bimekizumab-bkzx),
Cimzia (certolizumab), Cosentyx (secukinumab), Enbrel (etanercept),
Ilumya (tildrakizumab), Olumiant (baricitinib), Orencia (abatacept), Otezla
(apremilast), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Siliq (brodalumab), Simponi
(golimumab), Skyrizi (risankizumab), Stelara (ustekinumab), Taltz
(ixekizumab), Tremfya (guselkumab), Xeljanz (tofacitinib)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
b For Connecticut, Kentucky and Mississippi business only a 30-day trial will be required.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. Reference:
1. Sotyktu [package insert]. Princeton, NJ: Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; September 2022
2. Menter A, Gottlieb A, Feldman SR, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and
psoriatic arthritis: Section 1. Overview of psoriasis and guidelines of care for the treatment of
psoriasis with biologics. J Am Acad Dermatol 2008; 58(5):826-50.
3. Gottlieb A, Korman NJ, Gordon KB, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis
and psoriatic arthritis. Psoriatic arthritis: Overview and guidelines of care for treatment with an
emphasis on the biologics. J Am Acad Dermatol 2008;58(5):851-64.
4. Menter A, Korman NJ, Elmets CA, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and
psoriatic arthritis. Section 3. Guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis
with topical therapies. J Am Acad Dermatol 2009;60(4):643-59.
5. Menter A, Korman NJ, Elmets CA, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and
psoriatic arthritis. Guidelines of care for the treatment of psoriasis with phototherapy and
photochemotherapy. J Am Acad Dermatol 2010;62(1):114-35.
6. Menter A, Korman NJ, Elmets CA, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of psoriasis and
psoriatic arthritis. Guidelines of care for the management and treatment of psoriasis with
traditional systemic agents. J Am Acad Dermatol 2009;61(3):451-85.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
7. Nast A, et al; European S3-Guidelines on the systemic treatment of psoriasis vulgaris – update
2015 – short version – EFF in cooperation with EADV and IPC, J Eur Acad Derm Venereol
2015;29:2277-94.
8. Menter A, Korman NJ, Elmets CA,Feldman SR, Gelfand JM, Gordon KB, Guidelines of care for
the management of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis: section 6. Guidelines of care for the treatment
of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis: case-based presentations and evidence-based conclusions. J
Am Acad Dermatol. 2011 Jul;65(1):137-74.
9. Menter A, Strober BE, Kaplan DH, et al. Joint AAD-NPF guidelines of care for the management
and treatment of psoriasis with biologics. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2019;80:1029-72.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity - Sotyktu (deucravacitinib)
Change Control
1/2023 New program
4/2023 Updated step therapy requirement from Humira or Amjevita to one of
the preferred adalimumab products and added the footnote “For a list of
preferred adalimumab products please reference drug coverage tools.”
7/2023 Updated not receiving in combination language to targeted
immunomodulator and updated examples.
7/2024 Annual review. Updated step therapy criteria requirements. Updated
state mandate foot note.
10/2024 Removed step through preferred products. Added continuation of
therapy to initial criteria. Removed preferred adalimumab footnote.
Updated examples with no change to clinical intent.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4