UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 2290-3
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Corlanor® (ivabradine)
P&T Approval Date 10/2022, 8/2023, 9/2024
Effective Date 12/1/2024
1. Background:
Corlanor (ivabradine) is a hyperpolarization-activated cycle nucleotide-gated channel blocker
indicated to reduce the risk of hospitalization for worsening of heart failure in patients with
stable, symptomatic chronic heart failure with left ventricular ejection fraction < 35%, who are
in sinus rhythm with resting heart rate > 70 beats per minute and either are on maximally
tolerated doses of beta-blockers or have a contraindication to beta-blocker use. It is also
indicated to treat stable symptomatic heart failure due to dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) in
pediatric patients aged 6 months and older, who are in sinus rhythm with an elevated heart rate.
Also, although not an FDA-approved indication, Corlanor has also shown to have efficacy in
treating inappropriate sinus tachycardia (IST).
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Corlanor will be approved based on one of the following criteria:
a. All of the following:
(1) Worsening heart failure in a diagnosis of stable, symptomatic chronic [e.g. New
York Heart Association (NYHA) class II, III or IV] heart failure
-AND-
(2) Patient has a left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) < 35%
-AND-
(3) The patient is in sinus rhythm
-AND-
(4) Patient has a resting heart rate > 70 beats per minute
-AND-
(5) One of the followingb:
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
i. Patient is on a stabilized dose and receiving concomitant therapy with a
maximally tolerated beta-blocker (e.g., carvedilol, metoprolol succinate,
bisoprolol)
ii. Patient has a contraindication or intolerance to beta-blocker therapy
-AND-
(6) One of the following:
i. Patient is on a stabilized dose and receiving concomitant therapy with
Jardiance or Farxiga* (includes combination products containing
empagliflozin and dapagliflozin*)
ii. Patient has a contraindication or intolerance to SGLT2 inhibitor therapy
-AND-
(7) One of the following:
i. Patient is on a stabilized dose and receiving concomitant therapy with one
of the following:
(1) angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (e.g. captopril,
enalapril)
(2) angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) (e.g. candesartan, valsartan)
(3) angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI) (e.g. Entresto)
-OR-
ii. Patient has a contraindication or intolerance to ACE inhibitors, ARBs, and
ARNIs
-AND-
(8) One of the following:
i. Patient is on a stabilized dose and receiving concomitant therapy with a
maximally tolerated aldosterone antagonist (e.g. eplerenone, spironolactone)
ii. Patient has a contraindication or intolerance to aldosterone antagonist
therapy
-AND-
(9) Prescribed by or in consultation with a cardiologist
-OR-
b. All of the following:
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
(1) Diagnosis of stable symptomatic heart failure due to dilated cardiomyopathy
(DCM)
-AND-
(2) Patient is in sinus rhythm
-AND-
(3) Patient has an elevated heart rate
-AND-
(4) Prescribed by or in consultation with a cardiologist
-OR-
c. All of the following:
(1) Diagnosis of inappropriate sinus tachycardia (IST)
-AND-
(2) Patient is in sinus rhythm
-AND-
(3) One of the following:
i. Patient has tried and failed or had an inadequate response to a beta-blocker
(e.g., carvedilol, metoprolol succinate, bisoprolol)
ii. Patient has a contraindication or intolerance to beta-blocker therapy
-AND-
(4) Prescribed by or in consultation with a cardiologist
-OR-
d. Patient is currently established on Corlanor therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Corlanor will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Corlanor therapy
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
b Tried/failed alternatives are supported by FDA labeling
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply Limits may be in place.
• *Typically excluded from coverage
4. References:
1. Corlanor [Package Insert] Thousand Oaks, CA: Amgen Inc.; August 2021
2. Heidenreich, P. A., Bozkurt, B., Aguilar, D., et al. 2022 ACC/AHA/HFSA guideline for the
management of heart failure. Journal of Cardiac Failure, 2022 28(5), e1-e167.
3. Sheldon, R.S., Grubb, B.P., et al. 2015 Heart Rhythm Society Expert Consensus Statement
on the Diagnosis and Treatment of Postural Tachycardia Syndrome, Inappropriate Sinus
Tachycardia, and Vasovagal Syncope. Heart Rhythm, 2015, 12(6), e41-e63.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Corlanor® (ivabradine)
Change Control
10/2022 New program.
8/2023 Updated background and added criteria for use in inappropriate sinus
tachycardia.
9/2024 Annual review. No changes.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4