UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 2241-4
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medications Winlevi® (clascoterone)
P&T Approval Date 6/2021, 6/2022, 7/2023, 7/2024
Effective Date 10/1/2024
1. Background:
Winlevi (clascoterone) is an androgen receptor inhibitor indicated for the topical treatment
of acne vulgaris in patients 12 years of age and older. Guidelines from the American
Academy of Dermatology recommend topical therapies for mild acne including retinoids,
benzoyl peroxide, topical antibiotics in combination with benzoyl peroxide or topical
retinoid with a strong recommendation. Clascoterone, salicylic acid and azelaic acid have
conditional recommendations.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Winlevi* will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of acne vulgaris
-AND-
b. Patient is 12 years of age or older
-AND-
c. History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to an adequate trial of a topical
retinoid [(e.g. tretinoin (generic Retin-A)]
-AND-
d. History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to an adequate trial of a topical
antibiotic in combination with benzoyl peroxide [e.g., benzoyl
peroxide/clindamycin (generic Duac), benzoyl peroxide/erythromycin (generic
Benzamycin)]
-AND-
e. History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to an adequate trial of a topical
dapsone (e.g. generic Aczone).
Authorization will be issued for 6 months.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
B. Reauthorization
1. Winlevi* will be approved based on the following criteria:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to therapy
-AND-
b. Patient has been assessed for signs of hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis
suppression (e.g. fatigue, weight loss, abdominal pain, depression, muscle
weakness)
Reauthorization will be issued for 6 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-
10) and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class
• Supply limits may be in place.
*Typically excluded from coverage.
4. References:
1. Winlevi [package insert]. Cranbury NJ: Sun Pharmaceuticals Industries, Inc; July 2022.
2. Reynolds, Rachel V. et al. Guidelines of care for the management of acne vulgaris. J
Am Acad Dermatol 2024;90:1006.e1-30
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity - Winlevi
Change Control
Date Change
6/2021 New program
6/2022 Annual review. Updated references.
7/2023 Annual review. Updated example to generic. Updated references.
7/2024 Annual review. Updated references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2