UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2200-12
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Olumiant® (baricitinib)
P&T Approval Date 5/2020, 5/2021, 6/2021, 12/2021, 2/2022, 8/2022, 7/2023, 9/2023,
11/2023, 2/2024, 10/2024, 4/2025
Effective Date 6/1/2025
1. Background:
Olumiant (baricitinib) is a Janus Kinase (JAK) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult
patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate
response to one or more tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antagonist therapies and for the treatment
of adult patients with severe alopecia areata. Use of Olumiant in combination with other JAK
inhibitors, biologic DMARDs, or with potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and
cyclosporine is not recommended. Olumiant is also indicated for the treatment of COVID-19 in
hospitalized adults requiring supplemental oxygen, non-invasive or invasive mechanical
ventilation, or ECMO.1
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Olumiant will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of moderately to severely active RA
-AND-
(2) One of the following:
(a) History of failure to a 3 month trial of one non-biologic disease modifying
anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD) [e.g., methotrexate, leflunomide,
sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine] at maximally indicated doses, unless
contraindicated or clinically significant adverse effects are experienced
(document drug, date, and duration of trial)b
-OR-
(b) Patient has been previously treated with a targeted immunomodulator FDA-
approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis as documented by claims
history or submission of medical records (Document drug, date, and duration
of therapy) [e.g., Enbrel (etanercept), Cimzia (certolizumab), Simponi
(golimumab), Orencia (abatacept), adalimumab, Xeljanz (tofacitinib),
Rinvoq (upadacitinib)]
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
-AND-
(3) One of the following:
(a) History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to two of the following
preferred products (Document drug, date, and duration of trial):
i. One of the preferred adalimumab productsc
ii. Cimzia (certolizumab)
iii. Enbrel (etanercept)
iv. Rinvoq (upadacitinib)
v. Simponi (golimumab)
vi. Xeljanz/Xeljanz XR (tofacitinib)
-OR-
(b) Both of the following:
i. Patient is currently on Olumiant therapy as documented by claims history
or submission of medical records (Document drug, date, and duration of
therapy):
-AND-
ii. Patient has not received a manufacturer supplied sample at no cost in the
prescriber’s office, or any form of assistance from the Eli Lilly sponsored
Olumiant Together program (e.g., sample card which can be redeemed at
a pharmacy for a free supply of medication) as a means to establish as a
current user of Olumiant*
-AND-
(4) Patient is not receiving Olumiant in combination with either of the following:
(a) Targeted immunomodulator [e.g., Enbrel (etanercept), Cimzia
(certolizumab), Simponi (golimumab), Orencia (abatacept), adalimumab,
Xeljanz (tofacitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib)]
(b) Potent immunosuppressant (e.g., azathioprine or cyclosporine)
-AND-
(5) Prescribed by or in consultation with a rheumatologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
* Patients requesting initial authorization who were established on therapy via the
receipt of a manufacturer supplied sample at no cost in the prescriber’s office or any
form of assistance from the Eli Lilly sponsored Olumiant Together program shall be
required to meet initial authorization criteria as if patient were new to therapy.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
2. Reauthorization
a. Olumiant will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Olumiant therapy
-AND-
(2) Patient is not receiving Olumiant in combination with either of the following:
(a) Targeted immunomodulator [e.g., Enbrel (etanercept), Cimzia
(certolizumab), Simponi (golimumab), Orencia (abatacept), adalimumab,
Xeljanz (tofacitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib)]
(b) Potent immunosuppressant (e.g., azathioprine or cyclosporine)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Alopecia Areata
1. Initial Authorization
a. Olumiant will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of severe alopecia areata
-AND-
(2) Other causes of hair loss have been ruled out (e.g., androgenetic alopecia,
cicatricial alopecias, secondary syphilis, tinea capitis, triangular alopecia, and
trichotillomania)
-AND-
(3) Patient has a current episode of alopecia areata with at least 50% scalp hair loss
-AND-
(4) Patient is not receiving Olumiant in combination with either of the following:
(a) Targeted immunomodulator [e.g., Enbrel (etanercept), Cimzia
(certolizumab), Simponi (golimumab), Orencia (abatacept), adalimumab,
Xeljanz (tofacitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Litfulo (ritlecitinib)]
(b) Potent immunosuppressant (e.g., azathioprine or cyclosporine)
-AND-
(5) Prescribed by or in consultation with a dermatologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
2. Reauthorization
a. Olumiant will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Olumiant therapy
-AND-
(2) Patient is not receiving Olumiant in combination with either of the following:
(a) Targeted immunomodulator [e.g., Enbrel (etanercept), Cimzia
(certolizumab), Simponi (golimumab), Orencia (abatacept), adalimumab,
Xeljanz (tofacitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Litfulo (ritlecitinib)]
(b) Potent immunosuppressant (e.g., azathioprine or cyclosporine)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
b For Connecticut, Kentucky and Mississippi business only a 30-day trial will be required.
c For a list of preferred products please reference drug coverage tools.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-
10) and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Olumiant [package insert]. Indianapolis, IN: Lilly USA, LLC; June 2022.
2. Fraenkel L, Bathon JM, England BR, et al. 2021American College of Rheumatology
Guideline for the Treatment of Rheumatoid Arthritis. Arthritis Care & Research. Arthritis
Rheum. 2021;73(7):924-939.
3. American Psychiatric Association: Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders,
Fifth Edition, Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing. 2013.
4. Messenger AG, McKillop J, Farrant P, et al. British Association of Dermatologists'
guidelines for the management of alopecia areata 2012. Br J Dermatol. 2012;166(5):916-
926.
5. King B, Ohyama M, Kwon O, et al. BRAVE-AA Investigators. Two Phase 3 Trials of
Baricitinib for Alopecia Areata. N Engl J Med. 2022 May 5;386(18):1687-1699.
6. King BA, Mesinkovska NA, Craiglow B, et al. Development of the alopecia areata scale for
clinical use: results of an academic-industry collaborative effort. J Am Acad Dermatol.
2022;86(2):359-364.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4
7. Meah N, Wall D, York K, et al. The Alopecia Areata Consensus of Experts (ACE) study:
Results of an international expert opinion on treatments for alopecia areata. J Am Acad
Dermatol. 2020;83(1):123-130.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity- Olumiant (baricitinib)
Change Control
5/2020 New program.
5/2021 Annual review. Removed prescriber requirement from reauthorization
criteria. References updated.
6/2021 Updated coverage criteria to allow coverage for patients previously
treated with a TNF inhibitor. Added clarification that submission of
medical records is required documenting current therapy with Olumiant
in order to bypass step if claim history not available.
12/2021 Updated conventional DMARD bypass language for rheumatoid
arthritis with no change to clinical intent. Updated CT/KY footnote.
2/2022 Updated formatting to clarify intent of the bypass of conventional
therapy requirement for patients previously treated with bDMARD or
tsDMARD. Added bypass of TNFi requirement for patients with
needle phobia. Added Rinvoq as example of JAK inhibitor. Updated
references. Added footnote to support FDA labeled first line
requirements.
8/2022 Added coverage criteria for alopecia areata. Updated background and
references.
7/2023 Updated not receiving in combination language to targeted
immunomodulator and updated examples.
9/2023 Updated examples. Added Mississippi to state mandate footnote. No
change to coverage criteria.
11/2023 Removed criteria that current AA episode lasting more than 6 months.
Added Litfulo as an example not to be used in combination. Removed
prescriber requirement for reauthorization. Updated state mandate
footnote.
2/2024 Updated criteria to require a failure, contraindication or intolerance to
two preferred products for RA removing failure of TNF or needle-
phobia. Added adalimumab preferred product footnote.
10/2024 Updated RA step requirement noting Adalimumab-adaz (unbranded
Hyrimoz), Amjevita for Nuvaila, and Humira as preferred adalimumab
products with no change to clinical intent. Removed preferred
adalimumab footnote.
4/2025 Removed examples for adalimumab step therapy. Added the footnote
“For a list of preferred products please reference drug coverage tools.”
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
5