UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2368-2
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Hympavzi™ (marstacimab-hncq)
P&T Approval Date 3/2025, 5/2025
Effective Date 7/1/2025
1. Background:
Hympavzi (marstacimab-hncq) is a tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI) antagonist indicated for
routine prophylaxis to prevent or reduce the frequency of bleeding episodes in adult and pediatric
patients 12 years of age and older with:
• hemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency) without factor VIII inhibitors
• hemophilia B (congenital factor IX deficiency) without factor IX inhibitors
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Hemophilia A Without Inhibitors
1. Published clinical evidence shows Hympavzi is likely to produce equivalent therapeutic
results as other available therapies [e.g., Hemlibra (emicizumab-kxwh)]; therefore,
Hympavzi is not medically necessary for treatment of hemophilia A (congenital factor
VIII deficiency) without factor VIII inhibitors.
All requests for authorization will be denied. All requests for therapy must be submitted
through the appeals process to the UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy appeals team for
consideration.
B. Hemophilia B Without Inhibitors
1. Initial Authorization
a. Hympavzi will be approved based on all of the following criteria
(1) One of the following:
(a) Both of the following:
i. Diagnosis of severe hemophilia B
-AND-
ii. Documentation of endogenous factor IX levels less than 1% of normal
factor IX (< 0.01 IU/mL)
-OR-
(b) Both of the following:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
i. One of the following
1. Both of the following
a. Diagnosis of moderate hemophilia B
-AND-
b. Documentation of endogenous factor IX level >1% < 5% (greater
than or equal to 0.01 IU/mL to less than 0.05 IU/mL)
-OR-
2. Both of the following
a. Diagnosis of mild hemophilia B
-AND-
b. Documentation of endogenous factor IX level > 5% (greater than or
equal to 0.05 IU/mL)
-AND-
ii. Submission of medical records (e.g., chart notes, laboratory values)
documenting a failure to meet clinical goals (e.g., continuation of
spontaneous bleeds, inability to achieve appropriate trough level, previous
history of inhibitors) after a trial of prophylactic factor IX replacement
products
-OR-
(c) All of the following:
i. Patient is currently on Hympavzi therapy
-AND-
ii. Diagnosis of hemophilia B
-AND-
iii. Patient has not received a manufacturer supplied sample at no cost in
prescriber office, or any form of assistance from the Pfizer-sponsored
Hympavzi Co-Pay Savings Program (e.g., sample card which can be
redeemed at a pharmacy for a free supply of medication) as a means to
establish as a current user of Hympavzi*
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2
(2) Patient is 12 years of age or older
-AND-
(3) Hympavzi is prescribed for the prevention of bleeding episodes (i.e., routine
prophylaxis)
-AND-
(4) Patient does not have a history of inhibitors to factor IX
* Patients requesting initial authorization who were established on therapy via the receipt of a
manufacturer supplied sample at no cost in the prescriber’s office or any form of assistance from
the Pfizer-sponsored Hympavzi Co-Pay Savings Program shall be required to meet initial
authorization criteria as if patient were new to therapy.
Authorization of therapy will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Hympavzi will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Hympavzi therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
4. References:
1. Hympavzi™ [package insert]. New York, NY: Pfizer Inc., October 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity - Hympavzi (marstacimab-hncq)
Change Control
3/2025 New program.
5/2025 Removed criteria that patient is not to receive extended half-life factor
VIII replacement products for the treatment of breakthrough bleeding
episodes.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
3