UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2300-3
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Altuviiio® [antihemophilic factor (recombinant), Fc-VWF-XTEN
fusion protein-ehtl]
P&T Approval Date 4/2023, 4/2024, 4/2025
Effective Date 7/1/2025
1. Background:
Altuviiio® [antihemophilic factor (recombinant), Fc-VWF-XTEN fusion protein-ehtl)] is a
recombinant DNA-derived, Factor VIII concentrate indicated for use in adults and children with
hemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency) for:
Routine prophylaxis to reduce the frequency of bleeding episodes
o
On-demand treatment and control of bleeding episodes
o
Perioperative management of bleeding
o
Altuviiio is not indicated for the treatment of von Willebrand disease.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Altuviiio will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of hemophilia A
-AND-
b. Altuviiio is being prescribed for one of the following:
(1) Treatment of bleeding episodes
(2) Prevention of bleeding in surgical interventions or invasive procedures (e.g.,
surgical prophylaxis)
(3) Prevention of bleeding episodes (i.e., routine prophylaxis)
-AND-
c. Patient is not a suitable candidate for treatment with shorter acting half-life Factor
VIII (recombinant) products [e.g., Advate, Kogenate FS, Kovaltry, Novoeight,
Nuwiq, or Recombinate] as attested by the prescribing physician
-AND-
d. Both of the following:
(1) Dose does not exceed 50 IU/kg
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
-AND-
(2) Patient is infusing no more frequently than every 7 days
Authorization of therapy will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Altuviiio will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Altuviiio therapy
-AND-
b. Both of the following:
(1) Dose does not exceed 50 IU/kg
-AND-
(2) Patient is infusing no more frequently than every 7 days
Authorization of therapy will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply
3. Additional Clinical Programs:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
4. References:
1. Altuviiio™ [package insert]. Waltham, MA: Bioverativ Therapeutics Inc., September 2024.
2. MASAC Recommendations Concerning Products Licensed for the Treatment of Hemophilia
and Selected Disorders of the Coagulation System. MASAC Document #290, October 2,
2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity - Altuviiio
Change Control
4/2023 New program.
4/2024 Annual review. No changes to coverage criteria. Updated reference.
4/2025 Annual review. No changes to coverage criteria. Updated reference.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2