UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2216-7
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Oriahnn® (elagolix and estradiol/norethindrone), MyFembree® (relugolix
and estradiol hemihydrate/norethindrone)
P&T Approval Date 9/2020, 8/2021, 1/2022, 9/2022, 2/2023, 2/2024, 2/2025
Effective Date 5/1/2025
1. Background:
Oriahnn, elagolix, co-packaged with estradiol/norethindrone, and MyFembree, relugolix co-
packaged with estradiol hemihyrate/norethindrone, are gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)
receptor antagonists co-packaged with a combined oral contraceptive, is indicated for the
management of heavy menstrual bleeding associated with uterine leiomyomas (fibroids) in
premenopausal women. Myfembree is also indicated for the management of moderate to severe
pain associated with endometriosis in premenopausal women.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Uterine Fibroids
1. Initial Authorization
a. MyFembree and Oriahnn will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
1) Diagnosis of uterine fibroids (leiomyomas)
-AND-
2) Used for the management of heavy menstrual bleeding
-AND-
3) Failure after a three-month trialb, contraindication, or intolerance to one of the
following:
a) Estrogen/progestin contraceptive (e.g. Loestrin FE®)
b) Progestin-releasing intrauterine devices (IUDs) (e.g. Mirena®)
c) Progestin-only contraceptive [e.g., norethindrone (generic Micronor®)]
-AND-
4) Prescribed by or in consultation with one of the following:
a) Obstetrics/Gynecologist (OB/GYN)
b) Reproductive endocrinologist
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
2. Reauthorization
a. MyFembree and Oriahnn will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
1) Documentation of positive clinical response to therapy
2) Impact to bone mineral density has been considered
3) Treatment duration has not exceeded a total of 24 months
Authorization will be issued for 12 months up to a maximum treatment duration of 24
months
NOTE: MyFembree and Oriahnn are indicated for a maximum treatment duration of
24 months
B. Pain associated with Endometriosis
1. Initial Authorization
a. MyFembree will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
1) Diagnosis of moderate to severe pain associated with endometriosis
-AND-
2) Failureb after a three-month trialb (e.g., inadequate pain relief), contraindication or
intolerance of two analgesics (e.g., ibuprofen, meloxicam, naproxen)
-AND-
3) Failure after a three-month trialb, contraindication, or intolerance to one of the
following:
a) Hormonal contraceptives
b) Progestins [e.g., norethindrone (generic Aygestin)]
-AND-
4) Prescribed by or in consultation with one of the following:
a) Obstetrics/Gynecologist (OB/GYN)
b) Reproductive endocrinologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
2. Reauthorization
a. Myfembree will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to therapy
(2) Impact to bone mineral density has been considered
(3) Treatment duration has not exceeded a total of 24 months
Authorization will be issued for 12 months up to a maximum treatment duration of 24
months
NOTE: MyFembree is indicated for a maximum treatment duration of 24 months
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
b For Connecticut, Kentucky and Mississippi business, only a 30 day trial will be required..
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Oriahnn [package insert]. North Chicago, IL: AbbVie Inc.; June 2023.
2. MyFembree [package insert]. Marlsborough, MA: Sumito Pharma America, Inc; July 2024.
3. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Management of Symptomatic Uterine
Leiomyomas. Practice Bulletin 228. June 2021.
4. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Management of endometriosis.
Practice Bulletin 114. July 2010 (Reaffirmed 2018).
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Oriahnn, MyFembree
Change Control
Date Change
9/2020 New program
8/2021 Annual review. Added MyFembree.
1/2022 Removed the tranexamic acid requirement. Updated the state mandate
language. Updated references.
9/2022 Added new indication for pain associated with endometriosis for
Myfembree. Updated state mandate language to include Mississippi.
2/2023 Removed the criteria that patient is premenopausal. Updated references.
2/2024 Annual review. Updated failure language. Updated state mandate
language. Updated authorization duration. Updated references.
2/2025 Annual review. Updated references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
3