UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2333-2
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Eohilia™ (budesonide oral suspension)*
P&T Approval Date 5/2024, 5/2025
Effective Date 8/1/2025
1. Background:
Eohilia (budesonide oral suspension)* is a corticosteroid indicated for 12 weeks of treatment in
adult and pediatric patients 11 years of age and older with eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE).
Guidelines from the American College of Gastroenterology and consensus recommendations from
the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) and the Joint Task Force on Allergy-
Immunology Practice Parameters (JTF) on the management of eosinophilic esophagitis
recommend oral administration of inhalational corticosteroids (eg, fluticasone, budesonide) as
first-line therapy in adults and children with eosinophilic esophagitis.
Eohilia has not been shown to be safe and effective for the treatment of EoE for longer than 12
weeks.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Authorization
1. Eohilia* will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE)
-AND-
b. Patient is experiencing symptoms related to esophageal dysfunction (e.g., dysphagia,
food impaction, chest pain that is often centrally located and may not respond to
antacids, gastroesophageal reflux disease-like symptoms/refractory heartburn, upper
abdominal pain)
-AND-
c. Submission of medical records (e.g., chart notes, laboratory values, etc.)
documenting eosinophil-predominant inflammation on esophageal biopsy, consisting
of a peak value of ≥15 intraepithelial eosinophils per high power field (HPF)
-AND-
d. Secondary causes of esophageal eosinophilia have been ruled out
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
e. History of suboptimal response contraindication or intolerance to an 8-week trialb of
both of the following (document name and date tried):
1) Proton pump inhibitor (e.g., pantoprazole, omeprazole)
2) Inhalational corticosteroid administered orally [e.g., budesonide nebulized
solution (Pulmicort respules*), Fluticasone HFA* (Flovent HFA* authorized
generic)]
-AND-
f. Prescribed by or in consultation with one of the following:
1) Allergist/Immunologist
2) Gastroenterologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
B. Reauthorization
1. Eohilia will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Eohilia therapy as evidenced by a
reduction in intraepithelial eosinophils per high power field (HPF)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
b For Connecticut, Kentucky and Mississippi business, only a 30-day trial will be required.
*Eohilia, Fluticasone HFA, Flovent HFA and brand Pulmicort Respules are typically excluded from
coverage
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim
logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or
therapeutic class.
4. References:
1. Eohilia [package insert]. Lexington, MA: Takeda Pharmaceuticals America, Inc; May 2024.
2. Hirano, I, Chan, ES, Rank MA, et. al. AGA Institute and the Joint Task Force on Allergy-
Immunology Practice Parameters Clinical Guidelines for the Management of Eosinophilic
Esophagitis. Gastroenterology. 2020; 158: 1776-86.
3. Delton, ES, Gonsalves, N, Hirano, I, et al. ACG Clinical Guideline: Evidenced Based
Approach to the Diagnosis and Management of Esophageal Eosinophilia and Eosinophilic
Esophagitis (EoE). Am J Gastroenterol. 2013; 108: 679-92.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity - Eohilia
Change Control
Date Change
5/2024 New program.
5/2025 Annual review. Updated failure language to suboptimal response.
Updated authorization duration and added reauthorization criteria
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
3