UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2273-5
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Cibinqo™ (abrocitinib) tablets
P&T Approval Date 4/2022, 7/2022, 3/2023, 3/2024, 4/2025
Effective Date 5/16/2025
1. Background:
Cibinqo is a Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric
patients 12 years of age and older with refractory, moderate to severe atopic dermatitis whose
disease is not adequately controlled with other systemic drug products, including biologics, or
when use of those therapies is inadvisable.
Limitation of Use:
Cibinqo is not recommended in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic
immunomodulators, or with other immunosuppressants.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Atopic Dermatitis
1. Initial Authorization
a. Cibinqo will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of moderate-to-severe chronic atopic dermatitis
-AND-
(2) One of the following:
(a) Both of the following:
i. History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to two of the following
therapeutic classes of topical therapies (document drug, date of trial, and/
or contraindication to medication):
(a) Medium, high, or very-high potency topical corticosteroid [e.g., Elocon
(mometasone furoate), Synalar (fluocinolone acetonide), Lidex
(fluocinonide)]
(b) Topical calcineurin inhibitor [e.g., pimecrolimus (generic Elidel),
tacrolimus (generic Protopic)].
(c) Eucrisa (crisaborole) ¥
-AND-
ii. One of the following:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
a. Both of the following^:
• Submission of medical records (e.g., chart notes, laboratory values)
documenting a 3 month trial b of a systemic drug product for the
treatment of atopic dermatitis [examples include, but are not limited
to, Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm), Dupixent (dupilumab), Ebglyss
(lebrikizumab-lbkz), etc.Ω] (prescription claims history may be used
in conjunction as documentation of medication use, dose, and
duration)
-AND-
• Physician attests that the patient was not adequately controlled with
the documented systemic drug product b
-OR-
b. Physician attests that systemic treatment with all of the following,
FDA-approved chronic atopic dermatitis therapies is inadvisable.
(Document drug and contraindication rationale) ^
• Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm)
• Dupixent (dupilumab)
• Ebglyss (lebrikizumab-lbkz)
-OR-
c. Patient has a documented needle-phobia to the degree that the patient has
previously refused any injectable therapy or medical procedure (refer to
DSM-V-TR 300.29 for specific phobia diagnostic criteria5).
-OR-
(b) Both of the following:
i. Patient is currently on Cibinqo therapy as documented by claims history
or submission of medical records (Document date and duration of
therapy):
-AND-
ii. Patient has not received a manufacturer supplied sample at no cost in the
prescriber’s office, or any form of assistance from the Pfizer dermatology
patient access program (e.g., sample card which can be redeemed at a
pharmacy for a free supply of medication) as a means to establish as a
current user of Cibinqo*
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
(3) Patient is not receiving Cibinqo in combination with any of the following:
(a) Biologic immunomodulator [e.g., Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm), Dupixent
(dupilumab), Ebglyss (lebrikizumab-lbkz), Nemluvio (nemolizumab-ilto)]
(b) Janus kinase inhibitor [e.g., Olumiant (baricitinib), Opzelura (topical
ruxolitinib), Rinvoq (upadicitinib), Xeljanz/XR (tofacitinib)]
(c) Potent immunosuppressant (e.g., azathioprine, cyclosporine, mycophenolate
mofetil)
-AND-
(4) Prescribed by one of the following:
(a) Dermatologist
(b) Allergist
(c) Immunologist
* Patients requesting initial authorization who were established on therapy via the receipt of
a manufacturer supplied sample at no cost in the prescriber’s office or any form of assistance
from the Pfizer dermatology patient access program shall be required to meet initial
authorization criteria as if patient were new to therapy.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Cibinqo will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Cibinqo therapy
-AND-
(2) Patient is not receiving Cibinqo in combination with any of the following:
(a) Biologic immunomodulator [e.g., Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm), Dupixent
(dupilumab), Ebglyss (lebrikizumab-lbkz), Nemluvio (nemolizumab-ilto)]
(b) Janus kinase inhibitor [e.g., Olumiant (baricitinib), Opzelura (topical
ruxolitinib), Rinvoq (upadicitinib), Xeljanz/XR (tofacitinib)]
(c) Potent immunosuppressant (e.g., azathioprine, cyclosporine, mycophenolate
mofetil)
-AND-
(3) Prescribed by or in consultation with one of the following:
(a) Dermatologist
(b) Allergist
(c) Immunologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
b For Connecticut, Kentucky and Mississippi business only a 30-day trial will be required.
^ Tried/failed alternative(s) are supported by FDA labeling.
¥ Eucrisa requires prior authorization.
Table 1: Relative potencies of topical corticosteroids3
Class Drug Dosage Form Strength (%)
Augmented betamethasone Ointment, gel 0.05
dipropionate
Very high
Clobetasol propionate Cream, foam, ointment 0.05
potency
Diflorasone diacetate Ointment 0.05
Halobetasol propionate Cream, ointment 0.05
Amcinonide Cream, lotion, ointment 0.1
Augmented betamethasone Cream, lotion 0.05
dipropionate
Betamethasone dipropionate Cream, foam, ointment, solution 0.05
Desoximetasone Cream, ointment 0.25
High Potency Desoximetasone Gel 0.05
Diflorasone diacetate Cream 0.05
Fluocinonide Cream, gel, ointment, solution 0.05
Halcinonide Cream, ointment 0.1
Mometasone furoate Ointment 0.1
Triamcinolone acetonide Cream, ointment 0.5
Betamethasone valerate Cream, foam, lotion, ointment 0.1
Clocortolone pivalate Cream 0.1
Desoximetasone Cream 0.05
Fluocinolone acetonide Cream, ointment 0.025
Medium
Flurandrenolide Cream, ointment, lotion 0.05
potency
Fluticasone propionate Cream 0.05
Fluticasone propionate Ointment 0.005
Mometasone furoate Cream, lotion 0.1
Triamcinolone acetonide Cream, ointment, lotion 0.1
Hydrocortisone butyrate Cream, ointment, solution 0.1
Lower-
Hydrocortisone probutate Cream 0.1
medium
Hydrocortisone valerate Cream, ointment 0.2
potency
Prednicarbate Cream 0.1
Alclometasone dipropionate Cream, ointment 0.05
Low potency Desonide Cream, gel, foam, ointment 0.05
Fluocinolone acetonide Cream, solution 0.01
Dexamethasone Cream 0.1
Lowest
Hydrocortisone Cream, lotion, ointment, solution 0.25, 0.5, 1
potency
Hydrocortisone acetate Cream, ointment 0.5-1
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4
Table 2: Systemic immunomodulatory agents recommended by the 2014 American Academy of
Dermatology guidelines for the treatment of refractory atopic dermatitis Ω,4
Cyclosporine
Azathioprine
Methotrexate
Mycophenolate mofetil
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Cibinqo [package insert]. New York, NY: Pfizer Inc.; December 2023.
2. Eichenfield LF, Tom WL, Chamlin SL et al. Guidelines of care for the management of atopic
dermatitis: section 1. Diagnosis and assessment of atopic dermatitis. J Am Acad Dermatol.
2014; 70(1):338-51.
3. Eichenfield LF, Tom WL, Berger TG, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of atopic
dermatitis: section 2. Management and treatment of atopic dermatitis with topical therapies. J Am
Acad Dermatol. 2014; 71(1):116-32.
4. Sidbury R, Davis DM, Cohen DE, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of atopic
dermatitis: Section 3. Management and treatment with phototherapy and systemic agents. J Am
Acad Dermatol. 2014 Aug;71(2):327-49.
5. American Psychiatric Association: Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth
Edition, Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Publishing. 2013.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Cibinqo (abrocitnib)
Change Control
4/2022 New program
7/2022 Removed age requirement from initial authorization criteria for atopic
dermatitis. Updated state mandate footnote to include Mississippi.
3/2023 Updated background to reflect expanded indication for patients 12 years
of age and older. Updated step requirement to generic Elidel and
Protopic and removed footnote. Updated reference.
3/2024 Annual review. Clarified topical steroid potency in atopic dermatitis
with no change to clinical intent or coverage criteria. Updated state
mandate footnote and reference.
4/2025 Annual review. Added Ebglyss as an example of systemic drug
product. Updated examples with no change to clinical intent.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
5