UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 2321-1
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Jesduvroq® (daprodustat)
P&T Approval Date 1/2024
Effective Date 4/1/2024
1. Background:
Jesduvroq (daprodustat) is a hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl hydroxylase (HIF PH) inhibitor
indicated for the treatment of anemia due to chronic kidney disease in adults who have been
receiving dialysis for at least four months.
The treatment of anemia includes intravenous (IV) iron and/or treatment with either an
erythropoiesis-stimulating agent (ESA) [e.g., Aranesp (darbepoetin), Epogen (epoetin alfa),
Procrit (epoetin alfa), Retacrit (epoetin alfa-epbx)] or a hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl
hydroxylase inhibitor (HIF PHI) [e.g., Jesduvroq (daprodustat)].
Limitations of Use
• Jesduvroq has not been shown to improve quality of life, fatigue, or patient well-being.
• Jesduvroq is not indicated for use as a substitute for transfusion in patients requiring
immediate correction of anemia or in patients not on dialysis.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Jesduvroq will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of anemia due to chronic kidney disease (CKD)
-AND-
b. Patient has been receiving dialysis for at least four months
-AND-
c. Both of the following:
(1) Ferritin greater than 100 mcg/L
(2) Transferrin saturation (TSAT) greater than 20%
-AND-
d. Hemoglobin level less than 11 g/dL
-AND-
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
e. Trial and failure, contraindication or intolerance to an erythropoietin stimulating agent
(ESA) [e.g., Aranesp (darbepoetin), Epogen (epoetin alfa), Procrit (epoetin alfa),
Retacrit (epoetin alfa-epbx)]
-AND-
f. Prescribed by or in consultation with one of the following:
(1) Hematologist
(2) Nephrologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Jesduvroq will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Jesduvroq therapy (e.g., clinically
meaningful increase in hemoglobin level)
-AND-
b. Adequate iron stores confirmed by both of the following:
(1) Ferritin greater than 100 mcg/L
(2) Transferrin saturation (TSAT) greater than 20%
-AND-
c. Hemoglobin level does not exceed 12 g/dL
-AND-
d. Patient is not on concurrent treatment with an erythropoietin stimulating agent (ESA)
[e.g., Aranesp (darbepoetin), Epogen (epoetin alfa), Procrit (epoetin alfa), Retacrit
(epoetin alfa-epbx)]
-AND-
e. Prescribed by or in consultation with one of the following:
(1) Hematologist
(2) Nephrologist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class
4. References:
1. Jesduvroq [package insert]. Durham, NC: GlaxoSmithKline; August 2023.
2. Akizawa T, Nangaku M, Yonekawa T, et al. Efficacy and Safety of Daprodustat Compared
with Darbepoetin Alfa in Japanese Hemodialysis Patients with Anemia: A Randomized,
Double-Blind, Phase 3 Trial. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2020;15(8):1155-1165.
doi:10.2215/CJN.16011219
3. Ketteler M, Block GA, Evenepoel P, Fukagawa M, Herzog CA, McCann L, Moe SM, Shroff
R, Tonelli MA, Toussaint ND, Vervloet MG, Leonard MB. KDIGO 2017 Clinical Practice
Guideline Update for the Diagnosis, Evaluation, Prevention, and Treatment of Chronic
Kidney Disease–Mineral and Bone Disorder (CKD-MBD). Ann Intern Med. 2018 Mar
20;168(6):422-430.
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity - Jesduvroq (daprodustat)
Change Control
1/2024 New program.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3