UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 2184-7
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity
Medication Vumerity® (diroximel fumarate)*
*Vumerity is excluded from coverage for the majority of our benefits
P&T Approval Date 1/2020, 11/2020, 5/2021, 5/2022, 5/2023, 5/2024, 5/2025
Effective Date 8/1/2025
1. Background:
Vumerity (diroximel fumarate) is indicated for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple
sclerosis (MS), to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and
active secondary progressive disease, in adults.
Coverage will be provided for members who meet the following criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
1. Authorization
a. Vumerity will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of clinically isolated syndrome (CIS) or a relapsing form of multiple
sclerosis (MS) (e.g., relapsing-remitting MS, secondary progressive MS with
relapses)
-AND-
(2) Prescribed by or in consultation with a specialist in the treatment of MS (e.g.,
neurologist)
-AND-
(3) Both of the following:
(a) Submission of medical records documenting the trial and failure (after trial
of at least 4 weeks), contraindication, or intolerance to at least two of the
following:
• glatiramer acetate (e.g., Copaxone®)
• interferon β-1a (e.g., Avonex®, Rebif®)
• interferon β-1b (e.g., Betaseron®)
• peginterferon β-1a (Plegridy®)
• teriflunomide (Aubagio®)
• Mayzent® (siponimod)
• fingolimod (Gilenya®)
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
• Zeposia® (ozanimod)
• Kesimpta® (ofatumumab)
-AND-
(b) Submission of medical records documenting the trial and failure (after trial
of at least 4 weeks), contraindication, or intolerance to both of the
following:
• Bafiertam® (monomethyl fumarate)
• dimethyl fumarate (generic Tecfidera®) with trial date that started
August 20, 2020 or later
-AND-
(4) Patient is not receiving Vumerity in combination with another disease
modifying therapy for multiple sclerosis [e.g., interferon beta preparations,
glatiramer acetate, dimethyl fumarate (Tecfidera®), Tysabri® (natalizumab),
fingolimod (Gilenya®), Ocrevus® (ocrelizumab), Lemtrada® (alemtuzumab),
Mavenclad® (cladribine), teriflunomide (Aubagio®), Bafiertam® (monomethyl
fumarate), Kesimpta® (ofatumumab), Zeposia® (ozanimod) or Mayzent®
(siponimod)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-
10) and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
• Exclusion: Vumerity is excluded from coverage for the majority of our benefits.
• Supply limits, notification, and/or Step Therapy may be in place.
4. References:
1. Vumerity [package insert]. Cambridge, MA: Biogen Inc.; September 2024.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
Program Prior Authorization/Medical Necessity – Vumerity® (diroximel
fumarate)
Change Control
1/2020 New program
11/2020 Revised step therapy medications due to changes in preferred
products. Removed continuation of therapy allowance and
reauthorization section. Updated references.
5/2021 Updated step through both Bafiertam (monomethyl fumarate) and
dimethyl fumarate (generic Tecfidera). Added requirement of
medical record submission.
5/2022 Annual review with no change to clinical criteria. Updated references.
5/2023 Annual review. Removed diagnosis header on coverage criteria.
Changed dimethyl fumarate (generic Tecfidera) wording. Updated
references.
5/2024 Annual review. Updated the listing of the brand names of step therapy
medications. Updated references.
5/2025 Annual review with no change to clinical criteria. Updated reference.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3