UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1422-32
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Litfulo™ (ritlecitinib)
P&T Approval Date 11/2023, 12/2024
Effective Date 3/1/2025
1. Background:
Litfulo (ritlecitinib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of severe alopecia areata in
adults and adolescents 12 years and older.
Limitations of Use:
Not recommended for use in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic
immunomodulators, cyclosporine or other potent immunosuppressants
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Litfulo will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of severe alopecia areata
-AND-
b. Patient is not receiving Litfulo in combination with either of the following:
(1) Targeted immunomodulator [e.g., Olumiant (baricitinib), Enbrel (etanercept),
Cimzia (certolizumab), Simponi (golimumab), Orencia (abatacept), adalimumab,
Xeljanz (tofacitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib)]
(2) Potent immunosuppressant (e.g., azathioprine or cyclosporine)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Litfulo will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Litfulo therapy
-AND-
b. Patient is not receiving Litfulo in combination with either of the following:
(1) Targeted immunomodulator [e.g., Olumiant (baricitinib), Enbrel (etanercept),
Cimzia (certolizumab), Simponi (golimumab), Orencia (abatacept), adalimumab,
Xeljanz (tofacitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib)]
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
(2) Potent immunosuppressant (e.g., azathioprine or cyclosporine)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits, Step Therapy, and/or Medical Necessity may be in place.
4. References:
1. Litfulo [package insert]. New York, NY: Pfizer, Inc.; June 2023.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Litfulo (ritlecitinib)
Change Control
11/2023 New program.
12/2024 Annual review with no change to coverage criteria.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2