UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1445-2
Program Prior Authorization/Non-Formulary
Medication Wegovy® (semaglutide) - Cardiovascular Risk Reduction Only
P&T Approval Date 4/2024, 5/2025
Effective Date 8/1/2025
1. Background:
Wegovy is a glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist indicated in combination with
a reduced calorie diet and increased physical activity to reduce the risk of major adverse
cardiovascular events (cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, or non-fatal
stroke) in adults with established cardiovascular disease and either obesity or overweight.
Wegovy is also indicated to reduce excess body weight and maintain weight reduction long
term in adults and pediatric patients aged 12 years and older with obesity, and in adults with
overweight in the presence of at least one weight-related comorbid condition.
Medications for the purpose of weight loss are typically a benefit exclusion. The program
allows for coverage of Wegovy for the cardiovascular risk reduction indication.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Wegovy will be approved based on all the following criteria:
a. Treatment is being requested to reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular
events
-AND-
b. Patient is 45 years of age or older
-AND-
c. Submission of medical records documenting all the following:
(1) BMI ≥ 27 kg/m2
(2) Established cardiovascular disease as evidenced by one of the following:
(a) Prior myocardial infarction (MI)
(b) Prior ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke
(c) Symptomatic peripheral arterial disease (PAD) evidenced by one of the
following:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
(i) Intermittent claudication with ankle-brachial index (ABI) less than
0.85 (at rest)
(ii) Peripheral arterial revascularization procedure
(iii) Amputation due to atherosclerotic disease
-AND-
d. Used in combination with a reduced calorie diet and increased physical activity
-AND-
e. One of the following:
(1) For patients with history of MI:
(a) Patient is on therapy from each of the following classes unless there is a
contraindication or intolerance:
(i) cholesterol lowering medication (e.g., statin, PCSK9i)
(ii) beta blocker (i.e., carvedilol, metoprolol, or bisoprolol)
(iii) angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACE-I), angiotensin II
receptor blocker (ARB) or angiotensin II receptor blocker
neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI)
(iv) antiplatelet (e.g., aspirin, clopidogrel)
-OR
(2) For patients with history of ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke:
(a) Patient is on therapy from each of the following classes unless there is a
contraindication or intolerance:
(i) cholesterol lowering medication (e.g., statin, PCSK9)
(ii) angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACE-I), angiotensin II
receptor blocker (ARB) or angiotensin II receptor blocker neprilysin
inhibitor (ARNI)
(iii) antiplatelet (e.g., aspirin, clopidogrel)
-OR-
(3) For patients with history of symptomatic PAD:
(a) Patient is on therapy from each of the following classes unless there is a
contraindication or intolerance:
(i) cholesterol lowering medication (e.g., statin, PCSK9)
(ii) angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACE-I), angiotensin II
receptor blocker (ARB) or angiotensin II receptor blocker
neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI)
(iii) antiplatelet (e.g., aspirin, clopidogrel)
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2
-AND-
f. Patient does not have either of the following:
(1) Diagnosis of diabetes or HgA1c > 6.5%
(2) New York Heart Association class IV heart failure
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Wegovy will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. BMI ≥ 27 kg/m2
-AND-
b. Used in combination with a reduced calorie diet and increased physical activity
-AND-
c. Patient does not have either of the following:
(1) Diagnosis of diabetes or HgA1c > 6.5%
(2) New York Heart Association class IV heart failure
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Wegovy [package insert]. Plainsboro, NJ: Novo Nordisk; November 2024.
2. Smith SC Jr, Benjamin EJ, Bonow RO, Braun LT, Creager MA, Franklin BA, Gibbons RJ,
Grundy SM, Hiratzka LF, Jones DW, Lloyd-Jones DM, Minissian M, Mosca L, Peterson ED,
Sacco RL, Spertus J, Stein JH, Taubert KA. AHA/ACCF secondary prevention and risk
reduction therapy for patients with coronary and other atherosclerotic vascular disease: 2011
update: a guideline from the American Heart Association and American College of
Cardiology Foundation. Circulation. 2011;124:2458–2473.
3. American Heart Association/American Stroke Association Practice Guidelines. Secondary
Prevention of Ischemic Stroke: Updated Guidelines from AHA/ASA. 2022. American
Family Physicians. 2022; 105(1).
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
3
4. Dawn O. Kleindorfer, Amytis Towfighi, Seemant Chaturvedi, Kevin M. Cockroft, Jose
Gutierrez, Debbie Lombardi-Hill, Hooman Kamel, Walter N. Kernan, Steven J. Kittner,
Enrique C. Leira, Olive Lennon, James F. Meschia, Thanh N. Nguyen, Peter M. Pollak,
Pasquale Santangeli, Anjail Z. Sharrief, Sidney C. Smith Jr, Tanya N. Turan and Linda S.
Williams. 2021 Guideline for the prevention of stroke in patients with stroke and transient
ischmic attack : a guideline from the American Heart Association/American Stroke
Association. Stroke. 2021 ;52 :e364-e467.
5. Pablo Alonso-Coello , MD , PhD; Sergi Bellmunt, MD; Catherine McGorrian, MBBCh, BAO;
Sonia S. Anand, MD, PhD; Randolph Guzman, MD, RVT; Michael H. Criqui, MD, MPH;
Elie A. Akl, MD, MPH, PhD; Per Olav Vandvik, MD, PhD; Maarten G. Lansberg, MD, PhD;
Gordon H. Guyatt, MD, FCCP; and Frederick A. Spencer, MD. Antithrombotic therapy in
peripheral artery disease: antithrombic therapy and prevention of thrombosis, 9th ed:
American College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. Chest.
2012;141(2 Suppl):e669S.
Program Non-Formulary – Wegovy - Cardiovascular Risk Reduction Only
Change Control
Date Change
4/2024 New program.
5/2025 Annual review. Updated references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
4