UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1380-5
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Adbry™ (tralokinumab-ldrm)
P&T Approval Date 2/2022, 2/2023, 3/2023, 3/2023, 4/2025
Effective Date 7/1/2025
1. Background:
Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm) is an interleukin-13 antagonist indicated for the treatment of
moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in patients aged 12 years and older whose disease is not
adequately controlled with topical prescription therapies or when those therapies are not
advisable. Adbry can be used with or without topical corticosteroids.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Atopic Dermatitis
1. Initial Authorization
a. Adbry will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of moderate to severe chronic atopic dermatitis
-AND-
(2) History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to topical therapies
-AND-
(3) Patient is not receiving Adbry in combination with either of the following:
(a) Biologic immunomodulator [e.g., Dupixent (dupilumab), Ebglyss
(lebrikizumab-lbkz), Nemluvio (nemolizumab-ilto)]
(b) Janus kinase inhibitor [e.g., Cibinqo (abrocitinib), Opzelura (topical
ruxolitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Xeljanz/XR (tofacitinib)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Adbry will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Adbry therapy
-AND-
(2) Patient is not receiving Adbry in combination with either of the following:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
(a) Biologic immunomodulator [e.g., Dupixent (dupilumab), Ebglyss
(lebrikizumab-lbkz), Nemluvio (nemolizumab-ilto)]
(b) Janus kinase inhibitor [e.g., Cibinqo (abrocitinib), Opzelura (topical
ruxolitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Xeljanz/XR (tofacitinib)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim
logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or
therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Adbry [package insert]. Madison, NJ: Leo Pharma Inc.; June 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm)
Change Control
2/2022 New program.
2/2023 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Added state
mandate footnote and updated reference.
3/2023 Updated not used in combination criteria.
3/2024 Annual review. Removed age requirement from criteria. Updated
background and reference.
4/2025 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated examples
with no change to clinical intent. Updated reference.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2