UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1429-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication TruqapTM (capivasertib)
P&T Approval Date 1/2024, 1/2025
Effective Date 4/1/2025
1. Background:
Truqap (capivasertib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated, in combination with fulvestrant, for the
treatment of adult patients with hormone receptor (HR)-positive, human epidermal growth
factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer with one or
more PIK3CA/AKT1/PTEN-alterations following progression on at least one endocrine-
based regimen in the metastatic setting or recurrence on or within 12 months of completing
adjuvant therapy.
2. Coverage Criteria a:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Truqap will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Breast Cancer
1. Initial Authorization
a. Truqap will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of breast cancer
-AND-
(2) One of the following:
(a) Locally advanced
(b) Recurrent unresectable (local or regional)
(c) Metastatic
-AND-
(3) Disease is hormone receptor (HR)-positive
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
(4) Disease is human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative
-AND-
(5) Presence of one or more PIK3CA/AKT1/PTEN-alterations
-AND-
(6) One of the following:
(a) Has progressed on at least one endocrine-based regimen in the metastatic
setting (e.g., anastrozole, letrozole, exemestane, tamoxifen)
(b) Recurrence on or within 12 months of completing adjuvant therapy
-AND-
(7) Used in combination with fulvestrant
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Truqap will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Truqap therapy
-AND-
(2) Used in combination with fulvestrant
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
1. The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-
10) and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Truqap [package insert]. Wilmington, DE: Astra Zeneca; September 2024.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
http://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/contents.asp. Accessed
November 25, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - TruqapTM (capivasertib)
Change Control
1/2024 New program
1/2025 Annual review. Added ‘recurrent unresectable’ to disease type of the
clinical criteria. Added reference.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3