UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1279-8
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Spravato® (esketamine)
P&T Approval Date 4/2019, 4/2020, 12/2020, 12/2021, 12/2022, 12/2023, 6/2024, 3/2025
Effective Date 5/1/2025
1. Background:
Spravato is a non-competitive N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist indicated for
the treatment of:
• treatment-resistant depression (TRD) in adults, as monotherapy or in conjunction with an
oral antidepressant.
• depressive symptoms in adults with major depressive disorder (MDD) with acute suicidal
ideation or behavior in conjunction with an oral antidepressant.
Limitations of Use: The effectiveness of Spravato in preventing suicide or in reducing suicidal
ideation or behavior has not been demonstrated. Use of Spravato does not preclude the need for
hospitalization if clinically warranted, even if patients experience improvement after an initial
dose of Spravato. Spravato is not approved as an anesthetic agent. The safety and effectiveness
of Spravato as an anesthetic agent have not been established.
Because of the risks of serious adverse outcomes resulting from sedation, dissociation, and abuse
and misuse, Spravato is only available through a restricted program under a Risk Evaluation and
Mitigation Strategy (REMS) called the Spravato REMS.
In the pivotal clinical trials for Spravato, treatment resistance was defined as a lack of clinically
meaningful improvement in the current episode of depression after treatment with at least 2
different antidepressant agents prescribed in adequate dosages for an adequate duration (defined
for phase 3 studies as at least 6 weeks).
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Major depressive disorder (treatment-resistant)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Spravato will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of major depressive disorder (treatment-resistant)
-AND-
(2) Patient has not experienced a clinically meaningful improvement after treatment
with at least two different antidepressants
-AND-
(3) Provider and/or the provider’s healthcare setting is certified in the Spravato
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
REMS program
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
2. Reauthorization
a. Spravato will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Spravato therapy
-AND-
(2) Provider and/or the provider’s healthcare setting is certified in the Spravato
REMS program
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
B. Depressive symptoms in adults with major depressive disorder (MDD) with acute
suicidal ideation or behavior
1. Authorization
a. Spravato will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of major depressive disorder
-AND-
(2) Patient is experiencing an acute suicidal ideation or behavior
-AND-
(3) Provider and/or the provider’s healthcare setting is certified in the Spravato
REMS program
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Spravato [prescribing information]. Lakewood, NJ; Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; January 2025.
2. Psychopharmacologic Drugs Advisory Committee and Drug Safety and Risk Management
Advisory Committee Meeting. FDA Briefing Document. February 12, 2019.
https://www.fda.gov/downloads/AdvisoryCommittees/CommitteesMeetingMaterials/Drugs/Psyc
hopharmacologicDrugsAdvisoryCommittee/UCM630970.pdf. (Accessed on March 11, 2019)
3. Thase M, Connolly KR. Unipolar depression in adults: Choosing treatment for resistant
depression. Solomon D, ed. UpToDate. Waltham, MA: UpToDate Inc.
https://www.uptodate.com (Accessed on March 3, 2025)
4. Huda Akil, Joshua Gordon, Rene Hen, et al. Treatment Resistant Depression: A Multi-Scale,
Systems Biology Approach. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2018 Jan; 84: 272–288.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Spravato (esketamine)
Change Control
4/2019 New program.
4/2020 Annual review with no changes to clinical coverage criteria.
12/2020 Updated background and coverage criteria for new indication for MDD
with acute suicidal ideation or behavior. Updated references.
12/2021 Annual review. Updated background to include limitations of use with
no change to clinical criteria.
12/2022 Annual review. Updated coverage criteria for treatment-resistant
depression with revised wording for combination with oral
antidepressant from “another” to “an” without change to clinical intent.
Added state mandate and updated references.
12/2023 Annual review. Updated background and references.
6/2024 Updated wording of coverage criteria without change to clinical intent.
Updated approval duration, both initial and reauthorization, to 12
months.
3/2025 Revised coverage criteria for TRD to remove reference to current
depressive episode and remove specific trial length from history of
failure of a trial of at least two different antidepressant medications or
treatment regimens. Removed requirement for combination with oral
antidepressant for TRD per updated label. Updated references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3