UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1438-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Velsipity™ (etrasimod)*
*Velsipity is excluded from coverage for the majority of our benefits
P&T Approval Date 4/2024, 4/2025
Effective Date 7/1/2025
1. Background:
Velsipity (etrasimod) is a sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor modulator indicated for the
treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adults.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Velsipity will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis
-AND-
b. Patient is not receiving Velsipity in combination with a targeted immunomodulator
[e.g., adalimumab, Cimzia (certolizumab), Entyvio (vedolizumab), Olumiant
(baricitinib), Omvoh (mirikizumab-mrkz), Orencia (abatacept), Rinvoq
(upadacitinib), Simponi (golimumab), Skyrizi (risankizumab), Tremfya
(guselkumab), ustekinumab, Xeljanz (tofacitinib)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Velsipity will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Velsipity therapy
-AND-
b. Patient is not receiving Velsipity in combination with a targeted immunomodulator
[e.g., adalimumab, Cimzia (certolizumab), Entyvio (vedolizumab), Olumiant
(baricitinib), Omvoh (mirikizumab-mrkz), Orencia (abatacept), Rinvoq
(upadacitinib), Simponi (golimumab), Skyrizi (risankizumab), Tremfya
(guselkumab), ustekinumab, Xeljanz (tofacitinib)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Exclusion: Velsipity is excluded from coverage for the majority of our benefits
• Supply limits and/or Step Therapy may be in place.
4. References:
1. Velsipity [package insert]. New York, NY: Pfizer Inc.; June 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Velsipity (etrasimod)
Change Control
4/2024 New program.
4/2025 Annual review. Updated examples with no change to clinical intent.
Updated reference.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2