UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1399-3
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Lytgobi® (futibatinib)
P&T Approval Date 11/2022, 11/2023, 11/2024
Effective Date 2/15/2025
1. Background:
Lytgobi (futibatinib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with
previously treated, unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma
harboring fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) gene fusions or other rearrangements.
The National Cancer Comprehensive Network (NCCN) also recommends the use of Lytgobi in
extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma for subsequent treatment for progression on or after systemic
treatment for unresectable or resected gross residual (R2) disease, or metastatic disease with
fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) fusions or rearrangements.
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate and duration
of response. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and
description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial(s).
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the notification
criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Lytgobi will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Cholangiocarcinoma
1. Initial Authorization
a. Lytgobi will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of cholangiocarcinoma (intrahepatic or extrahepatic)
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
-AND-
(2) Disease is one of the following:
i. Unresectable
ii. Resected gross residual (R2)
iii. Metastatic
-AND-
(3) Positive for fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) fusions or
rearrangements
-AND-
(4) Used as second line or subsequent treatment
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Lytgobi will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Lytgobi therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits and/or step therapy may be in place.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
4. References:
1. Lytgobi [package insert]. Princeton, NJ: Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. April 2024.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
http://www.nccn.org. Accessed September 21, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Lytgobi® (futibatinib)
Change Control
11/2022 New program.
11/2023 Annual review. Updated cholangiocarcinoma criteria to include NCCN
recommendations. Updated background. Added reference.
11/2024 Annual review. Modified criteria for disease type in
cholangiocarcinoma. Updated references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3