UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1476-1
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Gomekli™ (mirdametinib)
P&T Approval Date 4/2025
Effective Date 7/1/2025
1. Background:
Gomekli is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients 2 years of age
and older with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) who have symptomatic plexiform neurofibromas (PN)
not amenable to complete resection.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of 19
years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or under
some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references. Where such
mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Gomekli will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Neurofibromatosis Type 1
1. Initial Authorization
a. Gomekli will be based approved based on both of the following:
(1) Diagnosis of neurofibromatosis type 1
-AND-
(2) Patient has plexiform neurofibromas (PN) that are both of the following:
(a) Symptomatic
(b) Not amenable to complete resection
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
1. Reauthorization
a. Gomekli will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Gomekli therapy.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a Category of
Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
• Gomekli™ [package insert]. Stamford, CT: SpringWorks Therapeutics, Inc; February, 2025.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Gomekli™ (mirdametinib)
Change Control
4/2025 New program.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2