UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1433-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Iwilfin™ (eflornithine)
P&T Approval Date 2/2024, 2/2025
Effective Date 5/1/2025
1. Background:
Iwilfin (eflornithine) is an ornithine decarboxylase inhibitor indicated to reduce the risk of relapse
in adult and pediatric patients with high-risk neuroblastoma (HRNB) who have demonstrated at
least a partial response to prior multiagent, multimodality therapy including anti-GD2
immunotherapy.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Iwilfin will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. High-Risk Neuroblastoma (HRNB)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Iwilfin will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of high-risk neuroblastoma (HRNB)
-AND-
(2) Patient has shown at least a partial response to prior multiagent, multimodality
therapy
-AND-
(3) Prior therapy included anti-GD2 immunotherapy (e.g., Danyelza (naxitamab-
gqgk), Unituxin (dinutuximab))
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Iwilfin will be approved based on the following criterion:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Iwilfin therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a Category
of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Iwilfin [package insert]. USWM, LLC.: Louisville, KY; December 2023.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Iwilfin™ (eflornithine)
Change Control
2/2024 New program.
2/2025 Annual review. No changes to clinical criteria.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2