UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1459-1
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Lazcluze™ (lazertinib)
P&T Approval Date 10/2024
Effective Date 2/1/2025
1. Background:
Lazcluze (lazertinib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated in combination with Rybrevant (amivantamab-
vmjw) for the first-line treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) exon 19 deletions or
exon 21 L858R substitution mutations.1 The National Cancer Comprehensive Network (NCCN)
also recommends the use of Lazcluze in combination with Rybrevant for EGFR exon 19 deletion
or exon 21 L858R recurrent NSCLC as continuation of therapy following disease progression on
Rybrevant and Lazcluze for asymptomatic disease, symptomatic brain lesions, or symptomatic
systemic limited progression.2
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of 19
years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or under
some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references. Where such
mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Lazcluze will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Lazcluze will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
-AND-
(2) Disease is one of the following:
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
(a) Recurrent
(b) Advanced
(c) Metastatic
-AND-
(3) Disease is positive for one of the following:
(a) Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) exon 19 deletion
(b) EGFR exon 21 L858R mutation
AND-
(4) Used in combination with Rybrevant (amivantamab-vmjw)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Lazcluze will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Lazcluze
therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Lazcluze [package insert]. Janssen Biotech, Inc.: Horsham, PA; August 2024.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
http://www.nccn.org. Accessed September 12, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Lazcluze (lazertinib)
Change Control
10/2024 New program.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3