UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1226-9
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Nerlynx® (neratinib)
P&T Approval Date 9/2017, 9/2018, 9/2019, 4/2020, 5/2021, 5/2022, 5/2023, 7/2023,
7/2024
Effective Date 10/1/2024
1. Background:
Nerlynx® (neratinib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the extended adjuvant treatment of adult
patients with early-stage human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive breast
cancer, to follow adjuvant trastuzumab-based therapy. It is also indicated for use in combination
with capecitabine, for the treatment of adult patients with advanced or metastatic HER2-positive
breast cancer who have received two or more prior anti-HER2 based regimens in the metastatic
setting.
The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) also recommends the use of Nerlynx in
combination with capecitabine or paclitaxel as treatment for brain metastases in HER2 positive
breast cancer, as extended adjuvant therapy following adjuvant trastuzumab-containing therapy
in hormone receptor (HR)-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive
patients with a perceived high risk of recurrence and node positive, as fourth-line therapy and
beyond in combination with capecitabine for recurrent unresectable or stage IV (M1) HER2-
positive disease that is HR-negative or HR-positive with or without endocrine therapy. and for
stage IV (M1) breast cancer in HER2 activating mutations as a single agent, or in combination
with fulvestrant with or without trastuzumab for hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative
disease in patients who have already received a CDK4/6 inhibitor therapy, or for triple negative
disease.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa :
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Nerlynx will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
B. Early-Stage or Node-Positive Breast Cancer
1. Nerlynx will be approved based on one of the following criteria:
a. All of the following:
(1) Diagnosis of early-stage breast cancer
-AND-
(2) Disease is human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive
-AND-
(3) Used as extended adjuvant therapy following adjuvant trastuzumabcontaining
therapy (e.g., Herceptin®, Kanjinti™)
-OR-
b. All of the following:
(1) Diagnosis of node positive breast cancer
-AND-
(2) Disease is hormone receptor (HR)-positive and HER2-positive
-AND-
(3) Used as extended adjuvant therapy following adjuvant trastuzumab-containing
therapy (e.g., Herceptin®, Kanjinti™)
-AND-
(4) Patient has a perceived high risk of recurrence
Authorization will be issued for 12 months. Duration of coverage is limited to 12
months per occurrence.
C. Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer
1. Initial Authorization
a. Nerlynx will be approved based on one of the following criteria:
(1) All of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of advanced or metastatic breast cancer
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
-AND-
(b) Disease is HER2-positive
-AND-
(c) Patient has received two or more prior anti-HER2 based regimens in
metastatic setting
-AND-
(d) Will be used in combination with capecitabine
-OR-
(2) Both of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of stage IV (M1) breast cancer
-AND-
(b) One of the following:
(i) Both of the following:
• HR-positive, HER2-negative disease
• Patient has already received CDK4/6 inhibitor therapy
-OR-
(ii) Triple negative disease
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Nerlynx will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Nerlynx therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
D. Breast Cancer with Brain Metastases
1. Initial Authorization
a. Nerlynx will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of breast cancer
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
-AND-
(2) Patient has brain metastases
-AND-
(3) Disease is HER2-positive
-AND-
(4) Used in combination with one of the following:
(a) capecitabine
(b) paclitaxel
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Nerlynx will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Nerlynx therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
E. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-
10) and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Nerlynx [package insert]. Los Angeles, CA: Puma Biotechnology, Inc.; March 2022.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
https://www.nccn.org. Accessed May 31, 2024.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Nerlynx (neratinib)
Change Control
9/2017 New program.
9/2018 Updated background and criteria to include NCCN recommended use in
patients with HER-2 positive breast cancer with recurrent brain
metastases.
9/2019 Annual review with no changes to clinical coverage criteria. Updated
references. Added general NCCN recommended review criteria.
4/2020 Updated background and criteria to include new indication.
5/2021 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated
references.
5/2022 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated
references.
5/2023 Annual review. Updated background. Updated criteria for metastatic
breast cancer per NCCN guidelines. Updated references. Added state
mandate and oncology medications footnote.
7/2023 Updated background. Added criteria for node-positive extended
adjuvant therapy per NCCN guidelines. Removed oncology
medications footnote. Updated reference.
7/2024 Annual review. Formatting changes to criteria without change to
clinical intent. Updated background and references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
5