UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1343-5
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medications Inqovi® (decitabine and cedazuridine) tablet
P&T Approval Date 12/2020, 2/2022, 2/2023, 2/2024, 2/2025
Effective Date 5/1/2025
1. Background:
Inqovi is a combination of decitabine, a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor, and cedazuridine, a
cytidine deaminase inhibitor, indicated for the treatment of adult patients with myelodysplastic
syndromes (MDS), including previously treated and untreated, de novo and secondary MDS with
the following French-American-British subtypes (refractory anemia, refractory anemia with
ringed sideroblasts, refractory anemia with excess blasts, and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia
[CMML]) and intermediate-1, intermediate-2, and high-risk International Prognostic Scoring
System (IPSS) groups.
The National Cancer Comprehensive Network (NCCN) notes that Inqovi could be considered as
a substitution for intravenous decitabine in patients with IPSS intermediate-1 and above.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Inqovi will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Inqovi will be approved based on both of the following:
(1) Diagnosis of myelodysplastic syndrome [e.g., previously treated and untreated, de
novo and secondary MDS with the following French American-British subtypes
(refractory anemia, refractory anemia with ringed sideroblasts, refractory anemia
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
with excess blasts, and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML)]
-AND-
(2) Patient is intermediate-1, intermediate-2, or high-risk per the International
Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Inqovi will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Inqovi therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a Category
of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Inqovi [package insert]. Princeton, NJ: Taiho Oncology, Inc.; March 2022.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
www.nccn.org. Accessed December 20, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Inqovi® (decitabine and
cedazuridine)
Change Control
12/2020 New program.
2/2022 Annual review. Updated background and references with no changes to
the clinical criteria.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
2/2023 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Added state
mandate footnote and updated references.
2/2024 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated
references.
2/2025 Annual review. Removed CMML as it would fall under MDS. Updated
references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3