UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1464-1
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Yorvipath® (palopegteriparatide)
P&T Approval Date 12/2024
Effective Date 3/1/2025
1. Background:
Yorvipath® is a parathyroid hormone analog (PTH(1-34)) indicated for the treatment of
hypoparathyroidism in adults.
Limitations of Use:
• Yorvipath was not studied for acute post-surgical hypoparathyroidism.
• Titration scheme was only evaluated in adults who first achieved an albumin-corrected serum
calcium of at least 7.8 mg/dL using calcium and active vitamin D treatment.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Yorvipath will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of hypoparathyroidism
-AND-
b. Yorvipath is not being used to treat acute post-surgical hypoparathyroidism
-AND-
c. Patient has achieved an albumin-corrected serum calcium of at least 7.8 mg/dL
using calcium and active vitamin D (e.g., calcitriol) treatment
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
B. Reauthorization
1. Yorvipath will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Yorvipath therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Medical Necessity may be in place
4. References:
1. Yorvipath® [package insert]. Princeton, NJ: Ascendis Pharma, Inc.; August 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Yorvipath (palopegteriparatide)
Change Control
12/2024 New program.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2