UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1419-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Ojjaara™ (momelotinib)
P&T Approval Date 11/2023, 11/2024
Effective Date 2/15/2025
1. Background:
Ojjaara (momelotinib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of intermediate or
high-risk myelofibrosis (MF), including primary MF or secondary MF [postpolycythemia vera
(PV) and post-essential thrombocythemia (ET)] with anemia. The National Cancer
Comprehensive Network (NCCN) also recommends Ojjaara for the treatment of lower-risk and
higher-risk myelofibrosis, and accelerated/blast phase myeloproliferative neoplasms.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age
of 19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Ojjaara will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Myeloproliferative Neoplasms
1. Initial Authorization
a. Ojjaara will be approved based on one of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of symptomatic lower-risk myelofibrosis
-OR-
(2) All of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of higher-risk myelofibrosis
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
-AND-
(b) Presence of symptomatic splenomegaly and/or constitutional symptoms
-AND-
(c) One of the following:
i. Used as continued therapy near the start of conditioning therapy in a
transplant candidate
ii. Patient is not a transplant candidate or transplant not currently feasible
-OR-
(3) Diagnosis of myelofibrosis-associated anemia
-OR-
(4) Both of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of accelerated/blast phase myeloproliferative neoplasm
-AND-
(b) One of the following:
i. Used for the improvement of splenomegaly or other disease-related
symptoms
ii. Continued treatment as a single agent near to the start of conditioning
therapy in transplant candidates for the improvement of splenomegaly
and other disease-related symptoms
Authorization will be issued for 6 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Ojjaara will be approved based on one the following criteria:
(1) Documentation that patient has evidence of symptom improvement or reduction
in spleen volume while on Ojjaara
Authorization will be issued for 6 months.
-OR-
(2) Documentation does not provide evidence of symptom improvement or
reduction in spleen volume while on Ojjaara, allow for dose titration with
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
discontinuation of therapy
Authorization will be issued for 2 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limit may be in place.
4. References:
1. Ojjaara [package insert]. Durham, NC: GlaxoSmithKline; September 2023.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
https://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/ Accessed October 11,
2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Ojjaara™ (momelotinib)
Change Control
11/2023 New program.
11/2024 Annual review. Modified title of myelofibrosis to myeloproliferative
neoplasms and updated coverage criteria based on NCCN guidelines.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3