UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1406-3
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Jaypirca® (pirtobrutinib)
P&T Approval Date 3/2023, 2/2024, 2/2025
Effective Date 5/1/2025
1. Background:
Jaypirca® (pirtobrutinib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with
relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) after at least two lines of systemic therapy,
including a Bruton Tyrosine Kinase (BTK) inhibitor. This indication is approved under accelerated
approval based on response rate. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon
verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial. Jaypirca is also indicated for the
treatment of adult patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma
(CLL/SLL) who have received at least two prior lines of therapy, including a BTK inhibitor and a B-
cell lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) inhibitor. This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on
response rate. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and
description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network
(NCCN) recommends the use of Jaypirca for the treatment of B-cell lymphomas, including splenic
and nodal marginal zone lymphoma, extranodal marginal zone lymphoma (EMZL) of the stomach,
extranodal marginal zone lymphoma of nongastric sites (noncutaneous), and Waldenström
macroglobulinemia/lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of 19
years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or under
some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references. Where such
mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Jaypirca will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. B-Cell Lymphomas
1. Initial Authorization
a. Jaypirca will be approved based on the following criteria:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
(1) All of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of one of the following:
i. extranodal marginal zone lymphoma of nongastric sites (noncutaneous)
ii. extranodal marginal zone lymphoma of the stomach
iii. mantle cell lymphoma (MCL)
iv. nodal marginal zone lymphoma
v. splenic marginal zone lymphoma
-AND-
(b) Disease is relapsed, refractory, or progressive
-AND-
(c) Patient has received at least two prior systemic therapies [e.g., chemotherapy],
one of which is a Bruton Tyrosine Kinase (BTK) inhibitor therapy [e.g.,
Imbruvica (ibrutinib), Calquence (acalabrutinib), Brukinsa (zanubrutinib)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Jaypirca will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Jaypirca therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia/Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
1. Initial Authorization
a. Jaypirca will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma
(SLL)
-AND-
(2) Patient has been previously treated with both of the following:
(a) Bruton Tyrosine Kinase (BTK) inhibitor therapy [e.g., Imbruvica (ibrutinib),
Calquence (acalabrutinib), Brukinsa (zanubrutinib)]
(b) B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) inhibitor therapy [e.g., Venclexta (venetoclax)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
a. Jaypirca will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Jaypirca therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
D. Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
1. Initial Authorization
a. Jaypirca will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Diagnosis of Waldenström Macroglobulinemia/Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma
which has been previously treated
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Jaypirca will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Jaypirca therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
E. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a Category of
Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Jaypirca [package insert]. Indianapolis, IN: Lilly USA, LLC. June 2024.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
http://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/contents.asp. Accessed January 7,
2025.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Jaypirca® (pirtobrutinib)
Change Control
3/2023 New program.
2/2024 Added coverage for updated labeled indication for CLL/SLL in patients
who have received at least two lines of therapy, including a BTK
inhibitor and a BCL-2 inhibitor. Updated references.
2/2025 Annual review. Added criteria for B-cell lymphomas and Waldenström
Macroglobulinemia according to NCCN guidelines. Updated
references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4