UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Program
Program Number 2025 P 1479-1
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Filspari™ (sparsentan), Vanrafia™ (atrasentan)
P&T Approval Date 6/2025
Effective Date 9/1/2025
1. Background:
Filspari (sparsentan) is indicated to slow kidney function decline in adults with primary
immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) who are at risk for disease progression. Vanrafia (atrasentan)
is indicated to reduce proteinuria in adults with primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) at
risk of rapid disease progression, generally a urine protein-to-creatinine ratio (UPCR) ≥ 1.5 g/g.
Vanrafia is approved under accelerated approval based on a reduction of proteinuria. It has not been
established whether Vanrafia slows kidney function decline in patients with IgAN. Continued
approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in
a confirmatory clinical trial.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
I. Initial Authorization
A. Filspari will be approved based upon all of the following criteria:
1. Diagnosis of primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN)
-AND-
2. Patient is at risk of disease progression
-AND-
3. Used to slow kidney function decline
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
B. Vanrafia will be approved based upon all of the following criteria:
1. Diagnosis of primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN)
-AND-
2. Patient is at risk of disease progression
-AND-
3. Used to reduce proteinuria
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
II. Reauthorization
1. Filspari or Vanrafia will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Medical Necessity and Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Filspari [package insert]. San Diego, CA: Traverse Therapeutics, Inc; April 2025.
2. Vanrafia [package insert]. East Hanover, NJ: Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation; April
2025.
3. KDIGO 2021 Glomerular Diseases Guideline. October 2021; 100 (4S).
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Filspari, Vanrafia
Change Control
6/2025 New program
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2