UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1296-6
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Xpovio® (selinexor)
P&T Approval Date 10/2019, 1/2021, 1/2022, 1/2023, 1/2024, 1/2025
Effective Date 4/1/2025
1. Background:
Xpovio (selinexor) is a nuclear export inhibitor indicated in combination with Velcade®
(bortezomib) and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who
have received at least one prior therapy. It is also indicated in combination with dexamethasone for
the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM) who have
received at least four prior therapies and whose disease is refractory to at least two proteasome
inhibitors, at least two immunomodulatory agents, and an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody.
Xpovio is also indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large
B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), not otherwise specified, including DLBCL arising from follicular
lymphoma, after at least 2 lines of systemic therapy.
The National Cancer Comprehensive Network® (NCCN) also recommends the use of Xpovio for
the treatment of previously treated multiple myeloma for relapsed or progressive disease in
combination with Darzalex® (daratumumab) and dexamethasone, Kyprolis® (carfilzomib) and
dexamethasone, or Pomalyst® (pomalidomide) and dexamethasone in patients who have received
at least two prior therapies including an immunomodulatory agent and a proteasome inhibitor and
who have demonstrated disease progression on or within 60 days of completion of the last therapy.
The NCCN also recommends using Xpovio for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or
refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), not otherwise specified including histologic
transformation of indolent lymphomas to DLBCL; HIV-related diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, or
monomorphic B-cell hyper post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder, after at least 2 lines of
systemic therapy.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the notification
criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Xpovio will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Multiple Myeloma
1. Initial Authorization
a. Xpovio will be approved based on one of the following:
(1) All of the following:
a) Diagnosis of relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM)
-AND-
b) Patient has received at least four prior therapies
-AND-
c) Disease is refractory to all of the following:
i. Two proteasome inhibitors (e.g., bortezomib, carfilzomib)
ii. Two immunomodulatory agents (e.g., lenalidomide, thalidomide)
iii. An anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody (e.g., daratumumab)
-AND-
d) Used in combination with dexamethasone
-OR-
(2) All of the following:
a) Diagnosis of multiple myeloma
-AND-
b) Patient has received at least one prior therapy
-AND-
c) One of the following:
i. Used in combination with Velcade® (bortezomib) and dexamethasone
ii. Used in combination with Darzalex® (daratumumab) and dexamethasone
iii. Used in combination with Kyprolis® (carfilzomib) and dexamethasone
-OR-
(3) All of the following:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
a) Diagnosis of multiple myeloma
-AND-
b) Patient has received at least 2 prior therapies, including an immunomodulatory
agent (e.g., lenalidomide, thalidomide) and a proteasome inhibitor (e.g.,
bortezomib, carfilzomib)
-AND-
c) Patient has demonstrated progression on or within 60 days of completion of
the last therapy
-AND-
d) Used in combination with Pomalyst® (pomalidomide) and dexamethasone
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Xpovio will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Xpovio therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Xpovio will be approved based on both of the following:
(1) One of the following:
a) Diagnosis of relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL)
(including histologic transformation of indolent lymphomas to DLBCL)
b) Diagnosis of relapsed or refractory HIV-related diffuse large B-cell lymphoma,
primary effusion lymphoma, or HHV8-positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
c) Diagnosis of relapsed or refractory monomorphic B-Cell type post-transplant
lymphoproliferative disorder.
-AND-
(2) Patient has received at least 2 lines of systemic therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
a. Xpovio will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Xpovio therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
D. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a Category
of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
Supply limits may be in place.
• Please refer to plan specifics to determine exclusion status.
4. References:
1. Xpovio [package insert]. Newton, MA: Karyopharm Therapeutics Inc.; July 2022.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
http://www.nccn.org. Accessed November 25, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Xpovio (selinexor)
Change Control
10/2019 New program.
1/2021 Added coverage criteria for DLBCL according to label.
1/2022 Annual review. Updated coverage criteria for multiple myeloma according
to label and NCCN. Updated references.
1/2023 Annual review. Updated background and coverage criteria for multiple
myeloma according to NCCN recommendations. Added state mandate and
updated references.
1/2024 Annual review. Updated background. Updated indicated formatting for
consistency. Included coverage criteria for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma
according to NCCN recommendations and updated reference.
1/2025 Annual review. Updated references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4