UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1434-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Wainua™ (eplontersen)
P&T Approval Date 2/2024, 2/2025
Effective Date 5/1/2025
1. Background:
Wainua (eplontersen) is a transthyretin-directed antisense oligonucleotide indicated for the
treatment of the polyneuropathy of hereditary transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis (hATTR) in
adults.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Wainua will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of hATTR amyloidosis with polyneuropathy
-AND-
b. Patient has a pathogenic TTR mutation (e.g., V30M)
-AND-
c. Patient is not receiving Wainua in combination with either of the following:
(1) Oligonucleotide agents [e.g., Onpattro (patisiran), Amvuttra (vutrisiran),
Tegsedi (inotersen)]
-OR-
(2) Transthyretin stabilizer [e.g., Vyndaqel/Vyndamax (tafamadis), Attruby
(acoramidis)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Wainua will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Wainua therapy
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
b. Patient is not receiving Wainua in combination with either of the following:
(1) Oligonucleotide agents [e.g., Onpattro (patisiran), Amvuttra (vutrisiran),
Tegsedi (inotersen)]
-OR-
(2) Transthyretin stabilizer [e.g., Vyndaqel/Vyndamax (tafamadis), Attruby
(acoramidis)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Wainua [package insert]. Wilmington, DE: AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP; September
2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Wainua™ (eplontersen)
Change Control
2/2024 New program.
2/2025 Added Attruby to Vyndaqel/Vyndamax and relabeled as transthyretin
stabilizer agents not to be used in combination. Updated reference.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2