UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1040-14
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Novarel® (chorionic gonadotropin) †, Ovidrel® (choriogonadotropin alfa) †,
and Pregnyl® (chorionic gonadotropin)*
P&T Approval Date 5/2013, 5/2014, 5/2015, 5/2016, 5/2017, 5/2018, 5/2019, 8/2019, 8/2020,
11/2021, 11/2022, 11/2023, 5/2024, 6/2025
Effective Date 9/1/2025
1. Background:
The body produces two types of gonadotropins, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and
luteinizing hormone (LH), both of which play a role in fertility and human reproduction. After
they are produced by the pituitary gland, gonadotropins trigger production of other sex hormones
which then promote production of egg and sperm. Produced in pregnant women by the placenta
and extracted from the urine, human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is similar in chemical structure
and function to LH.
hCG is routinely used to trigger ovulation in the treatment of infertility, a disease of the
reproductive system defined as one of the following:
• inability to achieve a successful pregnancy due to an individual’s medical, sexual, or
reproductive history;
• failure to achieve a pregnancy after 12 months or more of regular unprotected sexual
intercourse when the female partner is less than 35 years;
• failure to achieve a pregnancy after 6 months or more of regular unprotected sexual
intercourse when the female partner is 35 years or older
hCG may also be used to treat cryptorchidism in boys because hCG is thought to induce testicular
descent in situations when descent would have occurred at puberty. hCG thus may help to predict
whether or not orchiopexy will be needed in the future. Although, in some cases, descent
following hCG administration is permanent, in most cases the response is temporary. hCG is also
used to induce puberty in boys and to treat androgen deficiency in hypogonadotropic
hypogonadism. However, the major use of hCG preparations in males is in the initiation and
maintenance of spermatogenesis in hypogonadotropic men who desire fertility.
Novarel (chorionic gonadotropin)† and Pregnyl (chorionic gonadotropin) are indicated for
induction of ovulation and pregnancy in the anovulatory, infertile woman in whom the cause of
anovulation is secondary and not due to primary ovarian failure, and who has been appropriately
pretreated with human menotropins. They are also indicated for prepubertal cryptorchidism not
due to anatomic obstruction and selected cases of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism
(hypogonadism secondary to a pituitary deficiency) in males.
Ovidrel (choriogonadotropin alfa) † is indicated for the induction of final follicular maturation and
early luteinization in infertile women who have undergone pituitary desensitization and who have
been appropriately pretreated with follicle stimulating hormones as part of an Assisted
Reproductive Technology (ART) program such as in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer. It is
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
also indicated for the induction of ovulation and pregnancy in anovulatory infertile patients in
whom the cause of infertility is functional and not due to primary ovarian failure.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Ovulation Induction
1. Novarel†, Ovidrel†, or Pregnyl will be approved based on all of the following criteria*:
a. Diagnosis of anovulatory infertility
-AND-
b. Infertility is not due to primary ovarian failure
-AND-
c. For induction of ovulation
-AND-
d. Patient has been pre-treated with a follicular stimulating agent (e.g., gonadotropin,
clomiphene citrate, letrozole)
Authorization will be issued for 2 months.
B. Ovarian Stimulation
1. Novarel†, Ovidrel†, or Pregnyl will be approved based on one of the following criteria*:
a. All of the following:
(1) Diagnosis of infertility
-AND-
(2) For the development of multiple ovarian follicles
-AND-
(3) Patient has been or will be pre-treated with a follicular stimulating agent (e.g.,
gonadotropin, clomiphene citrate, letrozole)
-OR-
b. All of the following:
(1) Used for fertility preservation
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
(2) The individual will undergo gonadotoxic therapy (e.g., exposure to cytotoxic
agents, invasive surgery, prolonged hormonal ovarian suppression, radiation
therapy)
-AND-
(3) Will be used as part of an assisted reproductive technology (e.g., in vitro
fertilization) procedure
Authorization will be issued for 2 months.
C. Prepubertal Cryptorchidism
1. Novarel†, Ovidrel†, or Pregnyl will be approved based on the following criterion*:
a. Diagnosis of prepubertal cryptorchidism not due to anatomical obstruction
Authorization will be issued for 6 weeks.
D. Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism
1. Initial Authorization
a. Novarel†, Ovidrel†, or Pregnyl will be approved based on all of the following criteria*:
(1) Diagnosis of hypogonadism secondary to pituitary deficiency
-AND-
(2) Low testosterone (below normal reference level provided by the physician’s
laboratory)
-AND-
(3) One of the following:
(a) Low LH (below normal reference level provided by the physician’s laboratory)
(b) Low FSH (below normal reference level provided by the physician’s
laboratory)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Novarel†, Ovidrel†, or Pregnyl will be approved based on the following criterion*:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limitations may also be in place.
• Exclusion: †human chorionic gonadotropin (generic), Novarel and Ovidrel are excluded from
coverage for the majority of our benefits.
*Infertility is typically excluded from coverage for UnitedHealthcare. Please refer to member’s
specific benefits for coverage determination.
4. References:
1. World Health Organization web site. https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-
sheets/detail/infertility. Accessed May 5, 2025.
2. American Society for Reproductive Medicine. Definitions of infertility and recurrent pregnancy
loss: a committee opinion. Fertil Steril 2013;Jan;99(1):63
3. Petak SM, Nankin HR, Spark RF, Swerdloff RS, Rodriguez-Rigau LJ. American Association of
Clinical Endocrinologists Medical Guidelines for clinical practice for the evaluation and
treatment of hypogonadism in adult male patients – 2002 update. Endocr Pract. 2002;8:440-456.
4. Novarel [package insert]. Parsippany, NJ: Ferring Pharmaceuticals Inc.; May 2023
5. Pregnyl [package insert]. Jersey City, NJ: Organon & Co.; March 2025.
6. Ovidrel [package insert]. Rockland, MA: EMD Serono, Inc.; February 2022.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Novarel (chorionic gonadotropin),
Ovidrel (choriogonadotropin alfa), and Pregnyl (chorionic gonadotropin)
Change Control
5/2014 Annual review. No changes to the criteria. References updated.
5/2015 Annual review. No changes to the criteria. Updated background and
references.
5/2016 Annual review. No changes to the criteria. Updated references.
5/2017 Annual review. No changes to the criteria. Updated references.
5/2018 Annual review. No changes to the criteria. Updated references.
5/2019 Annual review. No changes to the criteria. Updated references.
8/2019 Indicated that human chorionic gonadotropin (generic), Novarel and
Ovidrel are excluded from coverage for the majority of our benefits.
8/2020 Annual review. No changes to the criteria.
11/2021 No changes to criteria. Updated references.
11/2022 Annual review. Added state mandate and updated references.
11/2023 Annual review. Updated references.
5/2024 Added coverage criteria for fertility preservation for iatrogenic infertility.
Updated term "controlled ovarian hyperstimulation” to “ovarian
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4
stimulation”.
6/2025 Updated coverage criteria for fertility preservation for iatrogenic infertility
to include additional examples of gonadotoxic therapy such as prolonged
hormonal ovarian suppression. Updated references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
5