UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1431-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Ogsiveo™ (nirogacestat)
P&T Approval Date 1/2025
Effective Date 4/1/2025
1. Background:
Ogsiveo™ (nirogacestat) is a gamma secretase inhibitor indicated for adult patients with
progressing desmoid tumors who require systemic treatment.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Ogsiveo will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Desmoid Tumors
1. Initial Authorization
a. Ogsiveo will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of desmoid tumor
-AND-
(2) Disease is progressive
-AND-
(3) Patient requires systemic treatment
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
2. Reauthorization Criteria
a. Ogsiveo will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Ogsiveo therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a Category of
Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits and/or Step Therapy may be in place.
4. References:
1. Ogsiveo [package insert]. Stamford, CT: SpringWorks Therapeutics, Inc.; April 2024.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
https://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/. Accessed November 27, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Ogsiveo (nirogacestat)
Change Control
1/2024 New program.
1/2025 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2