UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 1430-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Augtyro™ (repotrectinib)
P&T Approval Date 1/2024, 8/2024
Effective Date 11/1/2024
1. Background:
Augtyro (repotrectinib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with
locally advanced or metastatic ROS1-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Augtyro
is also indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older
with solid tumors that: have a neurotrophic tyrosine receptor kinase (NTRK) gene fusion, are
locally advanced or metastatic or where surgical resection is likely to result in severe
morbidity, and have progressed following treatment or have no satisfactory alternative
therapy. This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response
rate and duration of response. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon
verification and description of clinical benefit in the confirmatory trials.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the
age of 19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Augtyro will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Augtyro will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
-AND-
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
(2) Disease is one of the following:
(a) Advanced
(b) Metastatic
-AND-
(3) Disease is ROS1-positive
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Augtyro will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Augtyro therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. Solid Tumors
1. Initial Authorization
a. Augtyro will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Presence of solid tumor(s)
-AND-
(2) Disease is positive for neurotrophic tyrosine receptor kinase (NTRK) gene
fusion (e.g., ETV6-NTRK3, TPM3-NTRK1, LMNA-NTRK1, etc.)
-AND-
(3) Disease is one of the following:
(a) Locally advanced
(b) Metastatic
(c) Unresectable
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Augtyro will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Augtyro therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
D. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Augtyro [package insert]. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company: Princeton, NJ; June 2024.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
http://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/contents.asp. Accessed July
5, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Augtyro (repotrectinib)
Change Control
1/2024 New program.
8/2024 Updated background and coverage criteria to include new indication for
solid tumors with NTRK gene fusion per package insert. Updated
references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3