UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1443-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Rezdiffra™ (resmetirom)
P&T Approval Date 4/2024, 4/2025
Effective Date 7/1/2025
1. Background:
Rezdiffra™ (resmetirom) is a thyroid hormone receptor-beta (THR-beta) agonist indicated in
conjunction with diet and exercise for the treatment of adults with noncirrhotic nonalcoholic
steatohepatitis (NASH) with moderate to advanced liver fibrosis (consistent with stages F2 to
F3 fibrosis). This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on improvement of
NASH and fibrosis. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon
verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials.
Limitations of Use:
Avoid use of Rezdiffra in patients with decompensated cirrhosis.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Rezdiffra will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) [formerly
known as nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)]
-AND-
b. Moderate to advanced liver fibrosis (i.e., fibrosis stage F2 or F3)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
B. Reauthorization
1. Rezdiffra will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Rezdiffra therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-
10) and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits, Medical Necessity and/or Step Therapy may be in place.
4. References:
1. Rezdiffra [package insert]. West Conshohocken, PA: Madrigal Pharmaceuticals, Inc.;
March 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Rezdiffra (resmetirom)
Change Control
4/2024 New program.
4/2025 Annual review with no changes to criteria.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2