UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1266-7
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Talzenna® (talazoparib)
P&T Approval Date 12/2018, 12/2019, 12/2020, 12/2021, 12/2022, 8/2023, 8/2024
Effective Date 11/1/2024
1. Background:
Talzenna (talazoparib) is a poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor indicated as a single
agent for the treatment of adult patients with deleterious or suspected deleterious germline
BRCA mutated (gBRCAm), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative locally
advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Appropriate patients for therapy are selected based on an
FDA-approved companion diagnostic for Talzenna.1 Talzenna is also indicated in combination
with Xtandi (enzalutamide) for the treatment of adult patients with homologous recombination
repair (HRR) gene-mutated metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). The
National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) also supports use of Talzenna in any
localized or metastatic breast cancer subtype associated with a germline BRCA1 or BRCA2
mutation.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Talzenna will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Breast Cancer
1. Initial Authorization
a. Talzenna will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of breast cancer
-AND-
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
(2) Disease is one of the following:
(a) Locally advanced
(b) Metastatic
-AND-
(3) Presence of a germline BRCA-mutation
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Talzenna will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Talzenna
therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. Prostate Cancer
1. Initial Authorization
a. Talzenna will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer
-AND-
(2) Presence of homologous recombination repair (HRR) gene mutations
-AND-
(3) Used in combination with Xtandi (enzalutamide)
-AND-
(4) One of the following:
(a) Used in combination with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)
analog [e.g., Lupron (leuprolide), Zoladex (goserelin), Trelstar (triptorelin),
Vantas (histrelin), Firmagon (degarelix)]
-OR-
(b) Patient has had bilateral orchiectomy
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Talzenna will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Talzenna
therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
D. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class
• Supply limits may be in place.
• Step therapy may be in place.
4. References:
1. Talzenna [package insert]. New York, NY: Pfizer Labs, Feb 2024.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
http://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/contents.asp. Accessed July 2,
2024..
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Talzenna (talazoparib)
Change Control
12/2018 New program.
12/2019 Annual review. Added general NCCN recommendations for use
criteria. Updated background and references.
12/2020 Annual review. Added reference to step therapy policy. Updated
references.
12/2021 Annual review. Updated clinical criteria based on NCCN
recommendations. Updated references.
12/2022 Annual review. Added stated mandate and updated references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
8/2023 Added criteria for HRR gene-mutated mCRPC per label. Updated
background and references.
8/2024 Annual review. Updated references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4