UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1354-5
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Zokinvy™ (lonafarnib)
P&T Approval Date 3/2021, 3/2022, 3/2023, 3/2024, 3/2025
Effective Date 6/1/2025
1. Background:
Zokinvy (lonafarnib) is a farnesyltransferase inhibitor indicated in patients 12 months of age and
older with a body surface area of 0.39 m2 and above to reduce risk of mortality in Hutchinson-
Gilford Progeria Syndrome and for treatment of processing-deficient progeroid laminopathies
with either:
• Heterozygous LMNA mutation with progerin-like protein accumulation
• Homozygous or compound heterozygous ZMPSTE24 mutations
Limitations of Use:
Zokinvy is not indicated for other progeroid syndromes or processing-proficient progerid
laminopathies. Basedupon its mechanism of action, Zokinvy would not be expected to be
effective in these populations.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome
1. Zokinvy will be approved based on of the following criterion:
a. Diagnosis of Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Progeroid Laminopathies
1. Zokinvy will be approved based on of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of processing deficient progeroid laminopathy
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
b. Documentation of one of the following:
i. Heterozygous LMNA mutation with progerin-like protein accumulation
-OR-
ii. Homozygous or compound heterozygous ZMPSTE24 mutations
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Zokinvy [package insert]. Palo Alto, CA: Eiger BioPharmaceuticals, Inc.; March 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Zokinvy (lonafarnib)
Change Control
3/2021 New program.
3/2022 Annual review. Updated reference formatting.
3/2023 Annual review with no change to coverage criteria. Added state
mandate footnote.
3/2024 Annual review with no change to coverage criteria.
3/2025 Annual review with no change to coverage criteria. Updated
background and reference.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2