UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1480-1
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Qfitlia® (fitusiran)
P&T Approval Date 5/2025
Effective Date 7/1/2025
1. Background:
Qfitlia (fitusiran) is an antithrombin-directed small interfering ribonucleic acid indicated for
routine prophylaxis to prevent or reduce the frequency of bleeding episodes in adult and pediatric
patients aged 12 years and older with hemophilia A or B with or without factor VIII or IX
inhibitors.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Hemophilia A
1. Initial Authorization
a. Qfitlia will be approved based on both of the following criteria
(1) Diagnosis of hemophilia A
-AND-
(2) Prescribed for the prevention of bleeding episodes (i.e., routine prophylaxis)
Authorization of therapy will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Qfitlia therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Hemophilia B
1. Initial Authorization
a. Qfitlia will be approved based on both of the following criteria
(1) Diagnosis of hemophilia B
-AND-
(2) Prescribed for the prevention of bleeding episodes (i.e., routine prophylaxis)
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
Authorization of therapy will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Qfitlia therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Medical Necessity may be in place
4. References:
1. Qfitlia® [package insert]. Cambridge, MA: Genzyme Corporation; March 2025.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Qfitlia (fitusiran)
Change Control
5/2025 New program
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2