UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1316-6
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Pemazyre® (pemigatinib)
P&T Approval Date 6/2020, 6/2021, 6/2022, 10/2022, 10/2023, 10/2024
Effective Date 1/1/2025
1. Background:
Pemazyre (pemigatinib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults with previously
treated, unresectable locally advanced or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma with a fibroblast growth
factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) fusion or other rearrangement as detected by an FDA-approved test.
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate and
duration of response. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification
and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial(s). Pemazyre is also indicated for the
treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory myeloid/lymphoid neoplasms (MLNs) with
FGFR1 rearrangement.
The National Cancer Comprehensive Network (NCCN) also recommends use of Pemazyre for the
treatment of myeloid/lymphoid/mixed lineage neoplasms with eosinophilia and FGFR1
rearrangement.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Pemazyre will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Cholangiocarcinoma
1. Initial Authorization
a. Pemazyre will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of cholangiocarcinoma
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
-AND-
(2) Disease is one of the following:
a. Unresectable locally advanced
b. Resected gross residual (R2)
c. Metastatic
-AND-
(3) Disease has presence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) fusion or
other rearrangement
-AND-
(4) Patient has been previously treated
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Pemazyre will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Pemazyre
therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. Myeloid/Lymphoid Neoplasms
1. Initial Authorization
a. Pemazyre will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of myeloid/lymphoid/mixed lineage neoplasms with eosinophilia
-AND-
(2) Presence of an FGFR1 rearrangement
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Pemazyre will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Pemazyre
therapy
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
D. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Pemazyre® [package insert]. Wilmington, DE: Incyte Corporation. June 2023.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
www.nccn.org. Accessed August 28, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Pemazyre® (pemigatinib)
Change Control
6/2020 New program.
6/2021 Annual review. Addition of coverage criteria for myeloid/lymphoid
neoplasms according to NCCN. Updated background and references.
6/2022 Annual review. Revised grammar in criteria with no changes to clinical
intent. Updated background with conditional approval language per
prescribing information. Updated references.
10/2022 Updated criteria and background based on newly approved indication
for myeloid/lymphoid neoplasms. Updated reference. Added state
mandate footnote.
10/2023 Annual review. Updated criteria for Myeloid/Lymphoid Neoplasms.
Updated references.
10/2024 Annual review. Updated criteria for cholangiocarcinoma.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3