UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1466-1
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Attruby™ (acoramidis)
P&T Approval Date 1/2025
Effective Date 4/1/2025
1. Background:
Attruby (acoramidis) is a transthyretin stabilizer indicated for the treatment of the
cardiomyopathy of wild-type or variant transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis (ATTR-CM) in adults
to reduce cardiovascular death and cardiovascular-related hospitalization.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Transthyretin (ATTR)-mediated amyloidosis with cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Attruby will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of transthyretin (ATTR)-mediated amyloidosis with cardiomyopathy
(ATTR-CM)
-AND-
(2) Patient is not receiving Attruby in combination with an RNA-targeted therapy for
ATTR amyloidosis [i.e., Amvuttra (vutrisiran), Onpattro (patisiran), Tegsedi
(inotersen), Vyndaqel/Vyndamax (tafamadis), or Wainua (eplontersen)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Attruby will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation that the patient has experienced a positive clinical response to
Attruby (e.g., improved symptoms, quality of life, slowing of disease progression,
decreased hospitalizations, etc.)
-AND-
(2) Patient is not receiving Attruby in combination with an RNA-targeted therapy for
ATTR amyloidosis [i.e., Amvuttra (vutrisiran), Onpattro (patisiran), Tegsedi
(inotersen), Vyndaqel/Vyndamax (tafamadis), or Wainua (eplontersen)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Programs:
• Medical Necessity may be in place
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-
10) and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Attruby [package insert]. BridgeBio Pharma, Inc: Palo Alto, CA; November 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Attruby™ (acoramidis)
Change Control
1/2025 New program.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2