UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1326-9
Program Prior Authorization-Notification
Medication Nurtec® ODT (rimegepant), Qulipta™ (atogepant), Ubrelvy™
(ubrogepant), Zavzpret™ (zavegepant)*
P&T Approval Date 9/2020, 7/2021, 12/2021, 3/2022, 3/2023, 7/2023, 6/2024, 8/2024,
2/2025
Effective Date 5/1/2025
1. Background:
Nurtec ODT (rimegepant), Ubrelvy (ubrogepant) and Zavzpret (zavegepant)* are calcitonin
gene-related peptide receptor antagonists indicated for the acute treatment of migraine with
or without aura in adults. Nurtec ODT is also indicated for the preventive treatment of
episodic migraine in adults and Qulipta (atogepant) is indicated for the preventive treatment
of migraine in adults.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Ubrelvy or Zavzpret will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of migraine headaches with or without aura.
-AND-
b. Used for acute treatment of migraine
-AND-
c. Medication will not be used in combination with another acute calcitonin gene-
related peptide receptor (CGRP) antagonist (e.g. Nurtec ODT)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Nurtec ODT will be approved based on one of the following criteria:
a. All of the following:
1) Diagnosis of migraine headaches with or without aura.
-AND-
2) Used for acute treatment of migraine
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
3) Medication will not be used in combination with another acute calcitonin gene-
related peptide receptor (CGRP) antagonist (e.g., Ubrelvy, Zavzpret)
-OR-
b. All of the following:
1) Diagnosis of episodic migraines
-AND-
2) Used for preventive treatment of migraines
-AND-
3) Medication will not be used in combination with another CGRP antagonist or
inhibitor used for the preventive treatment of migraines (e.g., Aimovig, Ajovy*,
Emgality, Qulipta, Vyepti^)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
3. Qulipta will be approved based all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of migraines
-AND-
b. Used for preventive treatment of migraines
-AND-
c. Medication will not be used in combination with another CGRP antagonist or
inhibitor used for the preventive treatment of migraines (e.g., Aimovig, Ajovy*,
Emgality, Vyepti^, Nurtec ODT)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Ubrelvy or Zavzpret will be approved based on the following criteria:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to therapy
-AND-
b. Medication will not be used in combination with another acute calcitonin gene-
related peptide receptor (CGRP) antagonist (e.g., Nurtec ODT
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Nurtec ODT will be approved based on the following criteria:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to therapy
-AND-
b. One of the following:
1) Both of the following:
a) Use is for the acute treatment of migraine
-AND-
b) Medication will not be used in combination with another acute calcitonin
gene-related peptide receptor (CGRP) antagonist (e.g., Ubrelvy, Zavzpret)
-OR-
2) Both of the following:
a) Use is for the preventive treatment of migraines
-AND-
b) Medication will not be used in combination with another CGRP antagonist
or inhibitor used for the preventive treatment of migraines (e.g., Aimovig,
Ajovy*, Emgality, Qulipta, Vyepti^)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
3. Qulipta will be approved based on the following criteria:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to therapy
-AND-
b. Medication will not be used in combination with another CGRP antagonist or
inhibitor used for the preventive treatment of migraines (e.g. Aimovig, Ajovy*,
Emgality, Nurtec ODT, Vyepti^)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
*Ajovy, is typically excluded from coverage.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
^Vyepti may be subject to additional benefit and coverage review requirements.
3. Additional Clinical Programs:
• Supply limits may apply.
• Prior Authorization-Medical Necessity may apply
• Step Therapy may apply
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
4. References:
1. Nurtec ODT [package insert]. New York, NY: Pfizer, Inc. April 2024.
2. Qulipta [package insert]. North Chicago IL: AbbVie Inc; June 2023.
3 Ubrelvy [package insert]. North Chicago IL: AbbVie, Inc; February 2023.
4. Zavzpret [package insert]. New York, NY: Pfizer Inc.; March 2023
5. Calcitonin gene-related peptide-targeting therapies are a first-line option for the prevention of
migraine: An American Headache Society position statement update. AHS Consensus
Statement. Headache. 2024; 64:333-41.
Program Prior Authorization-Notification – Nurtec ODT, Qulipta, Ubrelvy,
Zavzpret
Change Control
Date Change
9/2020 New program.
7/2021 Added new indication for Nurtec ODT for episodic migraines. Added
statement regarding concomitant therapy with other CGRPs. Updated
references. Added state mandate language.
12/2021 Added Qulipta for preventive treatment of migraines. Updated references.
3/2022 Updated the products typically excluded from coverage. Added note for
Vyetpi regarding additional benefit and coverage review requirements.
Updated references.
3/2023 Updated reference.
7/2023 Added Zavzpret, updated CGRP examples, removed episodic for Quilipta.
6/2024 Removed notation that Qulipta and Zavzpret are typically excluded from
coverage. Updated references.
8/2024 Review. No changes.
2/2025 Review. No changes.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4