UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1462-1
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Itovebi™ (inavolisib)
P&T Approval Date 12/2024
Effective Date 3/1/2025
1. Background:
Itovebi is a kinase inhibitor indicated in combination with palbociclib and fulvestrant for the
treatment of adults with endocrine-resistant, PIK3CA-mutated, hormone receptor (HR)-positive,
human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative, locally advanced or metastatic breast
cancer, as detected by an FDA-approved test, following recurrence on or after completing adjuvant
endocrine therapy.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age
of 19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Itovebi will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Breast Cancer
1. Initial Authorization
a. Itovebi will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of breast cancer
-AND-
(2) Disease is one of the following:
(a) Locally advanced
(b) Metastatic
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
-AND-
(3) Disease is hormone receptor (HR)-positive
-AND-
(4) Disease is human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative
-AND-
(5) Disease is PIK3CA-mutation positive
-AND-
(6) Used following recurrence on or after completing adjuvant endocrine therapy
-AND-
(7) Used in combination with both of the following:
(a) Ibrance (palbociclib)
(b) Fulvestrant
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Itovebi will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Itovebi therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a Category
of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim
logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or
therapeutic class.
• Supply limit may be in place.
4. References:
1. Itovebi [package insert]. South San Francisco, CA: Genentech, Inc; October 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Itovebi™ (inavolisib)
Change Control
Date Change
12/2024 New program.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
3