UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1427-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Xphozah® (tenapanor)
P&T Approval Date 1/2025
Effective Date 4/1/2025
1. Background:
Xphozah® (tenapanor) is a sodium hydrogen exchanger 3 (NHE3) inhibitor indicated to reduce
serum phosphorus in adults with chronic kidney disease (CKD) on dialysis as add-on therapy in
patients who have an inadequate response to phosphate binders or who are intolerant of any dose
of phosphate binder therapy.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Xphozah will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of chronic kidney disease (CKD)
-AND-
b. Patient is receiving dialysis
-AND-
c. Xphozah will be used as add-on therapy to reduce serum phosphorus
-AND-
d. One of the following:
(1) Patient has had an inadequate response to phosphate binder therapy [e.g., calcium
acetate, sevelamer, lanthanum, Velphoro (sucroferric oxyhydroxide)]
-OR-
(2) Patient is intolerant to any dose of phosphate binder therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Xphozah will be approved based on the following criterion:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Xphozah therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
4. References:
1. Xphozah® [package insert]. Waltham, MA: Ardelyx, Inc.; October 2023.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Xphozah (tenapanor)
Change Control
1/2024 New program.
1/2025 Annual review with no updates.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2