UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1319-5
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Qinlock™ (ripretinib)
P&T Approval Date 7/2020, 7/2021, 7/2022, 7/2023, 7/2024
Effective Date 10/1/2024
1. Background:
Qinlock (ripretinib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with
advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) who have received prior treatment with 3 or
more kinase inhibitors, including imatinib.
The National Cancer Comprehensive Network (NCCN) recommends Qinlock in GIST as the
preferred fourth-line therapy for gross residual disease (R2 resection), unresectable primary
disease, tumor rupture, or recurrent/metastatic disease after progression on single agent therapy
with imatinib, sunitinib, and regorafenib. NCCN also recommends Qinlock as single-agent
therapy (preferred) with standard dosing for gross residual disease (R2 resection), unresectable
primary disease, tumor rupture or recurrent/metastatic disease with limited progression or
generalized (widespread, systemic) progression in patients with performance status 0-2 who are
intolerant to sunitinib as second-line therapy after imatinib; for gross residual disease (R2
resection), unresectable primary disease, tumor rupture or recurrent/ metastatic disease as an
additional option after progression on avapritinib and dasatinib. NCCN also recommends
Qinlock in cutaneous melanoma for metastatic or unresectable tumors with activating mutations
of KIT as second-line or subsequent therapy for disease progression, intolerance, and/or
projected risk of progression with BRAF-targeted therapy.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Qinlock will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor (GIST)
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
1. Initial Authorization
a. Qinlock will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST)
-AND-
(2) One of the following:
(a) Gross residual disease (R2 resection)
(b) Unresectable primary disease
(c) Tumor rupture
(d) Recurrent/Metastatic
-AND-
(3) One of the following:
(a) History of failure to all of the following:
i. Imatinib (Gleevec)
ii. Sunitinib (Sutent)
iii. Regorafenib (Stivarga)
-OR-
(b) All of the following:
i. Performance status 0-2
ii. History of progression on imatinib (Gleevec)
iii. History of intolerance to sunitinib (Sutent)
-OR-
(c) All of the following:
i. PDGFRA exon 18 mutations that are insensitive to imatinib (Gleevec)
(including PDGFRA D842V)
ii. History of progression on avapritinib (Ayvakit)
iii. History of progression on dasatinib (Sprycel)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Qinlock will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Qinlock therapy
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. Cutaneous Melanoma
1. Initial Authorization
a. Qinlock will be approved based on all the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of cutaneous melanoma
-AND-
(2) Disease is unresectable or metastatic
-AND-
(3) Positive for activating mutations of KIT
-AND-
(4) Disease progression, intolerance, and/or projected risk of progression with
BRAF-targeted therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Qinlock will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Qinlock therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
D. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Qinlock [package insert]. Waltham, MA: Deciphera Pharmaceuticals, LLC; October 2023.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
www.nccn.org. Accessed May 28, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Qinlock™ (ripretinib)
Change Control
7/2020 New program.
7/2021 Annual review. Updated criteria per NCCN guidelines. Updated
references.
7/2022 Annual review with no changes to criteria. Added state mandate
disclaimer and updated references.
7/2023 Annual review. Updated background and criteria for GIST tumors and
added background and criteria for cutaneous melanoma per NCCN
guidelines. Updated references.
7/2024 Annual review. Updated disease type for GIST based on NCCN
recommendations. Reformatted sections for GIST and cutaneous
melanoma. Updated references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4