UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1435-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Fruzaqla™ (fruquintinib)
P&T Approval Date 2/2024, 2/2025
Effective Date 5/1/2025
1. Background:
Fruzaqla™ (fruquintinib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with
metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) who have been previously treated with fluoropyrimidine-,
oxaliplatin-, and irinotecan-based chemotherapy, an anti-VEGF therapy, and, if RAS wild-type
and medically appropriate, an anti-EGFR therapy.
The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) also recommends use of Fruzaqla for
advanced colorectal cancer in patients who have progressed through all available regimens
besides regorafenib or trifluridine/tipiracil with or without bevacizumab.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Fruzaqla will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Colorectal Cancer
1. Initial Authorization
a. Fruzaqla will be approved based on the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of colorectal cancer
-AND-
(2) Disease is one of the following:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
(a) Advanced
(b) Metastatic
-AND-
(3) Patient has been previously treated with all of the following:
(a) Fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy (e.g., capecitabine, 5-FU)
(b) Oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy (e.g., CAPEOX, FOLFOX)
(c) Irinotecan-based chemotherapy (e.g., FOLFIRI, FOLFIRINOX)
(d) Anti-VEGF therapy (e.g., aflibercept, bevacizumab, ramucirumab)
-AND-
(4) One of the following:
(a) Both of the following:
i. Disease is RAS wild-type
-AND-
ii. Patient has been previously treated with an anti-EGFR therapy (e.g.,
cetuximab, panitumumab)
-OR-
(b) Disease is not RAS wild-type
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Fruzaqla will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Fruzaqla therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a Category of
Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits and/or step therapy may be in place.
4. References:
1. Fruzaqla [package insert]. Lexington, MA: Taketa Pharmaceuticals America, Inc.; November
2023.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
https://www.nccn.org. Accessed on December 20, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Fruzaqla (fruquintinib)
Change Control
2/2024 New program
2/2025 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3