UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1444-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Voydeya™ (danicopan)
P&T Approval Date 5/2024, 5/2025
Effective Date 8/1/2025
1. Background:
Voydeya (danicopan) is a complement factor D inhibitor indicated as add-on therapy to
Ultomiris (ravulizumab) or eculizumab for the treatment of extravascular hemolysis (EVH) in
adults with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH).1
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Voydeya will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH)
-AND-
b. Patient is currently receiving complement protein C5 inhibitor eculizumab or
Ultomiris (ravulizumab)
-AND-
c. Patient is experiencing extravascular hemolysis (EVH) while on complement protein
C5 inhibitor eculizumab or Ultomiris (ravulizumab)
-AND-
d. Patient will continue to receive complement protein C5 inhibitor eculizumab or
Ultomiris (ravulizumab)
-AND-
e. Patient is not receiving Voydeya in combination with a complement protein C3
inhibitor [e.g., Empaveli (Pegcetacoplan)] or a complement factor B inhibitor [e.g.,
Fabhalta (iptacopan)] used for the treatment of PNH
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Voydeya will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Voydeya therapy [e.g., decrease in
extravascular hemolysis (EVH), increased or stabilization of hemoglobin levels,
reduction in transfusions, improvement in hemolysis, etc.]
-AND-
b. Patient continues to receive Voydeya in combination with complement protein C5
inhibitor eculizumab or Ultomiris (ravulizumab) for PNH
-AND-
c. Patient is not receiving Voydeya in combination with a complement protein C3
inhibitor [e.g., Empaveli (Pegcetacoplan)] or a complement factor B inhibitor [e.g.,
Fabhalta (iptacopan)] used for the treatment of PNH
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may also be in place.
4. References:
1. Vodeya [package insert]. Boston, Massachusetts: Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; March 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - VoydeyaTM (danicopan)
Change Control
5/2024 New program
5/2025 Annual review. Updated list of C5 inhibitors by removing trade name of
Soliris from eculizumab.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2