UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1472-1
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Ebglyss™ (lebrikizumab-lbkz)
P&T Approval Date 3/2025
Effective Date 5/1/2025
1. Background:
Ebglyss (lebrikizumab-lbkz) is an interleukin-13 antagonist indicated for the treatment of adults
and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older who weigh at least 40 kg with moderate to
severe atopic dermatitis whose disease is not adequately controlled with topical prescription
therapies or when those therapies are not advisable. Ebglyss can be used with or without topical
corticosteroids.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Atopic Dermatitis
1. Initial Authorization
a. Ebglyss will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis
-AND-
(2) History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to topical therapies
-AND-
(3) Patient is not receiving Ebglyss in combination with either of the following:
(a) Biologic immunomodulator [e.g., Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm), Dupixent
(dupilumab)]
(b) Janus kinase inhibitor [e.g., Cibinqo (abrocitinib), Opzelura (topical
ruxolitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Xeljanz/XR (tofacitinib)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Ebglyss will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Ebglyss therapy
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
(2) Patient is not receiving Ebglyss in combination with either of the following:
(a) Biologic immunomodulator [e.g., Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm), Dupixent
(dupilumab)]
(b) Janus kinase inhibitor [e.g., Cibinqo (abrocitinib), Opzelura (topical
ruxolitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Xeljanz/XR (tofacitinib)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Ebglyss [package insert]. Indianapolis, IN: Eli Lilly and Company; September 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Ebglyss (lebrikizumab-lbkz)
Change Control
3/2025 New program.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2