UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1339-5
Program Prior Authorization/Non-Formulary
Medications Envarsus XR™ (tacrolimus extended-release tablets)*
P&T Approval Date 12/2020, 12/2021, 12/2022, 12/2023, 12/2024
Effective Date 3/1/2025
1. Background:
This program requires the provider to validate that the member is not an appropriate
candidate for immediate-release tacrolimus for prophylaxis of organ rejection in kidney
transplant patients.
Envarsus XR is indicated for prophylaxis of organ rejection in de novo kidney transplant
patients in combination with other immunosuppressants and prophylaxis of organ rejection in
kidney transplant patients converted from tacrolimus immediate-release formulations in
combination with other immunosuppressants.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Prophylaxis of organ rejection in kidney transplant
1. Envarsus XR will be approved based on all of the following:
a. Patient is the recipient of a kidney transplant
-AND-
b. One of the following:
(1) Provider attests that the patient is not an appropriate candidate for immediate-
release tacrolimus based on one of the following:
i. Unable to achieve or maintain an appropriate therapeutic drug level with
immediate-release tacrolimus
ii. In the provider’s expert opinion, the patient would be unable to achieve or
maintain an appropriate therapeutic drug level with immediate-release
tacrolimus
-OR-
(2) Patient is currently on Envarsus XR therapy and the provider attests that
switching therapy would be clinically inappropriate
-AND-
c. Envarsus XR will be used in combination with other immunosuppressant
medications (e.g., mycophenolate, azathioprine, corticosteroids) to prevent organ
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
rejection in kidney transplant recipients
-AND-
d. Prescribed by or in consultation with a nephrologist or transplant specialist
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
* Envarsus XR is typically excluded from coverage. Tried/Failed criteria may be in place. Please
refer to plan specifics to determine exclusion status.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-
10) and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Envarsus XR [package insert]. Cary, NC: Veloxis Pharmaceuticals, Inc; April 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Non-Formulary – Envarsus XR
Change Control
12/2020 New program
12/2021 Annual review with no changes to clinical criteria.
12/2022 Annual review with no changes to clinical criteria. Updated exclusion
statement.
12/2023 Annual review. Updated formatting and wording of criteria with no
change to clinical content. Updated reference.
12/2024 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated
reference.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2