UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1169-11
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Lonsurf® (trifluridine/tipiracil)
P&T Approval Date 11/2015, 9/2016, 9/2017, 9/2018, 4/2019, 4/2020, 4/2021, 4/2022, 4/2023,
4/2024, 4/2025
Effective Date 7/1/2025
1. Background:
Lonsurf (trifluridine/tipiracil) is a combination of trifluridine, a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor,
and tipiracil, a thymidine phosphorylase inhibitor, indicated for the treatment of adult patients
with:
• Metastatic colorectal cancer as a single agent or in combination with bevacizumab who have
been previously treated with fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin-, and irinotecan-based
chemotherapy, an anti-VEGF biological therapy, and if RAS wild-type, an anti-EGFR therapy.
• Metastatic gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma previously treated with at
least two prior lines of chemotherapy that included a fluoropyrimidine, a platinum, either a
taxane or irinotecan, and if appropriate, HER2/neu-targeted therapy.
In addition, the National Cancer Comprehensive Network (NCCN) also recommends the use of
Lonsurf as second-line and subsequent therapy as a single agent, or in combination with
bevacizumab (preferred), for advanced or metastatic colon, appendiceal, or rectal cancer.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age
of 19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Lonsurf will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Colorectal Cancer
1. Lonsurf will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) (i.e., colon,
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
appendiceal, or rectal cancer).
-AND-
b. History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to treatment with all of the following:
(1) Fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy
(2) Oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy
(3) Irinotecan-based chemotherapy
(4) Anti-VEGF biological therapy
-AND-
c. One of the following:
(1) Tumor is RAS mutant-type
-OR-
(2) Both of the following:
(a) Tumor is RAS wild-type
(b) History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to anti-EGFR therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Lonsurf will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Lonsurf therapy.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. Gastric/Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma
1. Lonsurf will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of one of the following:
(1) Unresectable locally advanced, recurrent, or metastatic gastric cancer
(2) Unresectable locally advanced, recurrent, or metastatic gastroesophageal junction
adenocarcinoma
-AND-
b. History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to treatment with at least two prior
lines of chemotherapy that consisted of the following agents:
(1) Fluoropyrimidine (e.g, fluorouracil)
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
(2) Platinum (e.g., carboplatin, cisplatin, oxaliplatin)
(3) Taxane (e.g, docetaxel, paclitaxel) or irinotecan
(4) HER2/neu-targeted therapy (e.g., trastuzumab) (if HER2 overexpression)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Lonsurf will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Lonsurf therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
D. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a Category of
Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Lonsurf [package insert]. Cambridge, MA: ARIAD Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; August 2023.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
https://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/. Accessed March 6, 2025.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Lonsurf® (trifluridine/tipiracil)
Change Control
11/2015 New program.
9/2016 Annual review. Updated references.
9/2017 Annual review. Updated references.
9/2018 Annual review. Updated references.
4/2019 Added coverage for metastatic gastric cancer. Updated references.
4/2020 Annual review. Added general NCCN recommendations for use criteria.
Updated reference.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
4/2021 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated background and
references.
4/2022 Annual review. Updated references.
4/2023 Annual review. Added state mandate and oncology medications footnote.
Updated references.
4/2024 Annual review. Removed oncology medications footnote. Updated background
for FDA indications and NCCN recommendations. Updated diagnostic criteria
for colorectal cancer. Updated gastric/gastroesophageal junction
adenocarcinoma diagnostic criteria. Updated references.
4/2025 Annual review. No changes to clinical criteria. Updated references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4