UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1335-5
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – New Jersey and New York
Medication Topical Products
P&T Approval Date 11/2020, 11/2021, 12/2022, 1/2024, 3/2025
Effective Date 6/1/2025
1. Background:
Topical medications are products that are applied locally to body surfaces such as the skin or
mucous membranes. They include variety of dosage forms, including but not limited to cream,
lotions, ointments, foams and gels. A dollar threshold may be used to identify topical products
which require prior authorization and must meet the criteria below in order to be covered.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Authorization
1. All of the following:
a. One of the following:
(1) The requested medication is being used for an indication supported by the FDA
approved labeling, peer-reviewed literature, or accepted standard of medical
practice.
-OR-
(2) The indication for the medication is supported by one of the following compendia:
(a) American Hospital Formulary Service (AHFS) Compendia
(b) Thomson Reuters (Healthcare) Micromedex/DrugDex (not Drug Points)
Compendium
(c) Elsevier Gold Standards Clinical Pharmacology Compendium
(d) National Comprehensive Cancer Network Drugs and Biologics Compendium
-AND-
b. One of the following:
(1) The dose and duration of treatment is supported by the FDA approved labeling,
peer-reviewed literature, or accepted standards of medical practice.
-OR-
(2) The dose and duration of treatment is supported by one of the following
compendia:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
(a) American Hospital Formulary Service (AHFS) Compendia
(b) Thomson Reuters (Healthcare) Micromedex/DrugDex (not Drug Points)
Compendium
(c) Elsevier Gold Standards Clinical Pharmacology Compendium
(d) National Comprehensive Cancer Network Drugs and Biologics Compendium
-AND-
c. The requested quantity of the medication is appropriate for the body surface area being
treated and for the days supply being requested (document body surface area being
treated and dosing instructions).
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Drug specific Exclusions, Supply limits, Prior Authorization/Notification or Medical
Necessity, and/or Step Therapy may be in place
4. References:
N/A
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Topical Products
Change Control
Date Change
11/2020 New program.
11/2021 Annual review. No changes.
12/2022 Annual review. Added state mandate footnote.
1/2024 Annual review. No changes.
3/2025 Annual review. No changes.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2