UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1477-1
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Romvimza™ (vimseltinib)
P&T Approval Date 4/2025
Effective Date 7/1/2025
1. Background:
Romvimza is a kinase inhibitor indicated for treatment of adult patients with symptomatic
tenosynovial giant cell tumor (TGCT) for which surgical resection will potentially cause worsening
functional limitation or severe morbidity.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of 19
years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or under
some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references. Where such
mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Romvimza will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Tenosynovial Giant Cell Tumor (TGCT)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Romvimza will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of tenosynovial giant cell tumor (TGCT)
-AND-
(2) Surgical resection will potentially cause worsening functional limitation or severe
morbidity
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
a. Romvimza will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Romvimza therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a Category of
Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
• Romvimza [package insert]. Waltham, MA: Deciphera Pharmaceuticals, LLC; February, 2025.
Program Program type - Prior Authorization/Notification – Romvimza (vimseltinib)
Change Control
4/2025 New program.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2