UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1385-4
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Vonjo (pacritinib)
P&T Approval Date 5/2022, 7/2022, 7/2023, 7/2024
Effective Date 10/1/2024
1. Background:
Vonjo (pacritinib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults with intermediate or
high-risk primary or secondary (post-polycythemia vera or post-essential thrombocythemia)
myelofibrosis (MF) with a platelet count below 50 × 109/L.
The National Cancer Comprehensive Network (NCCN) recommends Vonjo in higher-risk MF
if not a transplant candidate and platelets <50 × 109/L or platelets ≥50 x 109/L with presence of
symptomatic splenomegaly and/or constitutional symptoms with or without a response or loss
of response to one prior Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor. NCCN also recommends Vonjo for the
treatment of symptomatic lower-risk MF and platelets <50 × 109/L with or without a response
or loss of response to ruxolitinib, peginterferon alfa-2a, momelotinib, or hydroxyurea. NCCN
also recommends Vonjo in MF-associated anemia, and in accelerated/blast phase
myeloproliferative neoplasms as conditioning therapy in transplant candidates for the
improvement of splenomegaly and other disease-related symptoms, and as palliation of
splenomegaly or other disease-related symptoms in combination with hypomethylating agents
as bridging therapy prior to transplant, or if not a candidate for transplant.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Vonjo will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Myelofibrosis (MF)
1. Initial Authorization
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
a. Vonjo will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) One of the following diagnosis:
(a) Primary myelofibrosis
-OR-
(b) Post-polycythemia vera myelofibrosis
-OR-
(c) Post-essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis
-OR-
(d) Accelerated/blast phase myeloproliferative neoplasm
-AND-
(2) One of the following:
(a) Both of the following:
i. Patient has symptomatic lower-risk myelofibrosis
-AND-
ii. Patient has a platelet count < 50 x 109/L
-OR-
(b) All of the following:
i. Patient has higher-risk myelofibrosis
-AND-
ii. Patient is not a transplant candidate or transplant not currently feasible
-AND-
iii. One of the following:
• Patient has a platelet count < 50 x 109/L
-OR-
• Both of the following:
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
Patient has symptomatic splenomegaly and/or constitutional
o
symptoms
Patient has a platelet count ≥ 50 x 109/L
o
-OR-
(c) Used for treatment of myelofibrosis-associated anemia
-OR-
(d) Used for splenomegaly and other disease-related symptoms in one of the
following:
i. Continued near the start of conditioning therapy of transplant candidates
ii. Palliation in combination with hypomethylating agents (azacitidine or
decitabine) as bridging therapy prior to transplant, or if not a candidate for
transplant
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Vonjo will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Documentation that patient has evidence of symptom improvement or
reduction in spleen volume while on Vonjo
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a Category
of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
4. References:
1. Vonjo [package insert]. Seattle, WA: CTI BioPharma Corp.; February 2022.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
https://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/. Accessed May 28, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Vonjo (pacritinib)
Change Control
5/2022 New program
7/2022 Updated background with NCCN recommendations. Updated criteria to
include that patient is not a transplant candidate. Added coverage
criteria for platelets > 50 x 109/L and lower-risk MF. Added reference.
7/2023 Annual review. Updated Myelofibrosis background and criteria per
NCCN guidelines. Added state mandate footnote.
7/2024 Annual review. Added accelerated/blast phase myeloproliferative
neoplasm to list of MF subtypes. Updated criteria for low- and high-risk
MF, MF-associated anemia, and splenomegaly and other disease-related
symptoms per NCCN guidelines. Updated approval durations to 12
months. Updated background.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4