UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1291-6
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Nubeqa® (darolutamide)
P&T Approval Date 9/2019, 9/2020, 9/2021, 9/2022, 9/2023, 9/2024
Effective Date 12/1/2024
1. Background:
Nubeqa (darolutamide) is an androgen receptor inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients
with non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (nmCRPC) and metastatic hormone-
sensitive prostate cancer (mHSPC) in combination with docetaxel. Patients should also receive a
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analog concurrently while taking Nubeqa or should have
had bilateral orchiectomy.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Nubeqa will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Prostate Cancer
1. Initial Authorization
a. Nubeqa will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of prostate cancer
-AND-
(2) One of the following:
(a) Both of the following:
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
i. Disease is non-metastatic
-AND-
ii. Disease is castration-resistant or recurrent
-OR-
(b) All of the following:
i. Disease is metastatic
-AND-
ii. Disease is hormone-sensitive
-AND-
iii. Nubeqa will be used in combination with docetaxel
-AND-
(3) One of the following:
(a) Used in combination with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)
analog [e.g., Lupron (leuprolide), Zoladex (goserelin), Trelstar (triptorelin),
Vantas (histrelin), Firmagon (degarelix)]
-OR-
(b) Patient has had bilateral orchiectomy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization Criteria
a. Nubeqa will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Nubeqa therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Nubeqa [package insert]. Whippany, NJ: Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc.; October
2023.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
https://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/. Accessed July 26, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Nubeqa (darolutamide)
Change Control
9/2019 New program
9/2020 Annual review with no changes to criteria. Updated references.
9/2021 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated
formatting and references.
9/2022 Annual review. Added criteria for metastatic hormone-sensitive
prostate cancer (mHSPC) and updated background. Added state
mandate disclaimer and updated references.
9/2023 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated
references.
9/2024 Annual review with no changes. Updated references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3