UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1442-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Filsuvez® (birch triterpenes) topical gel
P&T Approval Date 4/2024, 4/2025
Effective Date 7/1/2025
1. Background:
Filsuvea (birch triterpenes) topical gel is indicated for the treatment of wounds associated with
dystrophic and junctional epidermolysis bullosa in adult and pediatric patients 6 months of age
and older.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Filsuvez will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Patient is at least 6 months of age and older
-AND-
b. One of the following diagnoses:
(1) Dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (DEB)
-OR-
(2) Junctional epidermolysis bullosa (JEB)
-AND-
c. Patient is not receiving Filsuvez in combination with Vyjuvek (beremagene
geperpavec-svdt) on the same wound(s)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Filsuvez will be approved based all of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to therapy
-AND-
(2) Patient is not receiving Filsuvez in combination with Vyjuvek (beremagene
geperpavec-svdt) on the same wound(s)
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Filsuvez [package insert]. Boston, MA: Chiesi Global Rare Diseases; May 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Filsuvez (birch triterpenes)
Change Control
4/2024 New program.
4/2025 Annual review with no changes to criteria. Updated references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2