UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1447-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Ojemda ™ (tovorafenib)
P&T Approval Date 6/2024, 6/2025
Effective Date 9/1/2025
1. Background:
Ojemda is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients 6 months of age and older with
relapsed or refractory pediatric low-grade glioma (LGG) harboring a BRAF fusion or
rearrangement, or BRAF V600 mutation.1
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on response rate and duration of
response. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and
description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial(s).
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Ojemda will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Low-grade Glioma
1. Initial Authorization
a. Ojemda will be approved based on all the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of pediatric low-grade glioma
-AND-
(2) Disease is relapsed or refractory
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
-AND-
(3) Presence of one of the following genetic mutations:
(a) BRAF fusion or rearrangement
(b) BRAF V600 mutation
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Ojemda will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Ojemda therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
1. The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limitations may be in place.
4. References:
1. Ojemda [package insert]. Brisbane, CA: Day One Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. June 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Ojemda ™ (tovorafenib)
Change Control
6/2024 New program
6/2025 Annual review. No changes to coverage criteria.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2