UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1233-10
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Verzenio® (abemaciclib)
P&T Approval Date 11/2017, 5/2018, 5/2019, 5/2020, 5/2021, 1/2022, 1/2023, 5/2023,
5/2024, 5/2025
Effective Date 8/1/2025
1. Background:
Verzenio (abemaciclib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated in combination with endocrine therapy
(tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor) for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients with hormone
receptor (HR)-positive, human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2)-negative, node-positive,
early breast cancer at high risk of recurrence; in combination with an aromatase inhibitor as
initial endocrine-based therapy for the treatment of adult patients with HR-positive, HER2-
negative advanced or metastatic breast cancer; in combination with fulvestrant for the treatment
of adult patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative advanced or metastatic breast cancer with
disease progression following endocrine therapy; and as monotherapy for the treatment of adult
patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative advanced or metastatic breast cancer with disease
progression following endocrine therapy and prior chemotherapy in the metastatic setting.
The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) recommends the use of Verzenio
similarly for men and premenopausal women treated with ovarian ablation/suppression with
recurrent or metastatic HR-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer disease, in combination with
an aromatase inhibitor or Faslodex (fulvestrant). The use of an aromatase inhibitor in men with
breast cancer is ineffective without concomitant suppression of testicular steroidogenesis. The
NCCN recommends the use of Verzenio for 2 years as adjuvant therapy in combination with
endocrine therapy in patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative, high risk (i.e., ≥4 positive
lymph nodes, or 1-3 positive lymph nodes with one or more of the following: Grade 3 disease,
tumor size ≥5 cm) disease. The NCCN also recommends Verzenio for estrogen receptor (ER)-
positive recurrent or metastatic endometrial carcinoma in combination with letrozole.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of 19
years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or under
some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references. Where such
mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the notification criteria.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Verzenio will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Breast Cancer
1. Initial Authorization
a. Verzenio will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of breast cancer
-AND-
(2) Disease is hormone-receptor (HR)-positive
-AND-
(3) Disease is human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative
-AND-
(4) One of the following:
(a) Both of the following:
i. Disease is advanced, recurrent, or metastatic
-AND-
ii. One of the following:
• Used in combination with an aromatase inhibitor (e.g., anastrozole,
letrozole, exemestane) or Faslodex (fulvestrant)
-OR-
• All of the following:
 Used as monotherapy
 Patient has disease progression following endocrine therapy
 Patient has already received at least one prior chemotherapy
regimen
-OR-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
(b) All of the following:
i. Disease is early breast cancer at high risk of recurrence defined by one
of the following (confirmed preoperatively and/or at surgery):
• Greater than or equal to 4 positive lymph nodes
-OR-
• Both of the following:
 1-3 positive lymph nodes
 Grade 3 disease or tumor size ≥ 5 cm
-AND-
ii. Used in combination with an aromatase inhibitor (e.g., anastrozole,
letrozole, exemestane) or tamoxifen
-AND-
iii. Use has not exceeded two years in duration
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
2. Reauthorization
a. Verzenio will be approved based on one of the following criteria:
(1) Both of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of advanced, recurrent, or metastatic breast cancer
-AND-
(b) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Verzenio
therapy
-OR-
(2) All of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of early breast cancer at high risk of recurrence
-AND-
(b) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Verzenio
therapy
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
-AND-
(c) Use has not exceeded two years in duration
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. Endometrial Carcinoma
1. Initial Authorization
a. Verzenio will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of recurrent or metastatic endometrial cancer
-AND-
(2) Tumor is estrogen receptor (ER)-positive
-AND-
(3) Used in combination with letrozole
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Verzenio will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Verzenio
therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
D. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Verzenio [package insert]. Indianapolis, IN: Lilly USA, LLC; February 2025.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
http://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/contents.asp. Accessed April 10,
2025.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Verzenio (abemaciclib)
Change Control
11/2017 New program.
5/2018 Updated background and criteria to include new indication for initial
endocrine-based therapy in combination with an aromatase inhibitor.
Updated references.
5/2019 Annual review. Updated coverage criteria to allow diagnosis of
recurrent breast cancer. Removed disease progression following
endocrine therapy for concomitant use of Faslodex per NCCN. Updated
background and reference.
5/2020 Annual review. Updated references and background.
5/2021 Annual review. No changes.
1/2022 Updated background and coverage criteria to include new indication for
early breast cancer. Updated references.
1/2023 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Added state
mandate footnote and updated references.
5/2023 Removed Ki-67 score requirement for patient selection per updated
prescribing information. Updated background and references.
5/2024 Annual review. Updated background and added clinical criteria for
endometrial carcinoma per NCCN. Updated references.
5/2025 Annual review. Updated criteria for breast cancer per NCCN
recommendations. Updated references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
5