UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1465-1
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Revuforj® (revumenib)
P&T Approval Date 1/2025
Effective Date 4/1/2025
1. Background:
Revuforj (revumenib) is a menin inhibitor indicated for the treatment of relapsed or refractory
acute leukemia with a lysine methyltransferase 2A gene (KMT2A) translocation in adult and
pediatric patients 1 year and older.
2. Coverage Criteria a:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Revuforj will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Acute Leukemia
1. Initial Authorization
a. Revuforj will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of acute leukemia
-AND-
(2) Disease is relapsed or refractory
-AND-
(3) Positive for lysine methyltransferase 2A gene (KMT2A) translocation
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Revuforj will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Revuforj therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
1. The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-
10) and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Revuforj [package insert]. Syndax Pharmaceuticals, Inc; Waltham, MA; November 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Revuforj® (revumenib)
Change Control
1/2025 New program
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2