UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1457-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Voranigo® (vorasidenib)
P&T Approval Date 10/2024, 12/2024
Effective Date 3/1/2025
1. Background:
Voranigo (vorasidenib) is an isocitrate dehydrogenase-1 (IDH1) and isocitrate dehydrogenase-2
(IDH2) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients 12 years and older
with Grade 2 astrocytoma or oligodendroglioma with a susceptible IDH1 or IDH2 mutation
following surgery including biopsy, sub-total resection, or gross total resection.
The National Cancer Comprehensive Network (NCCN) Drugs & Biologics Compendium also
recommends Voranigo for the treatment of recurrent or progressive astrocytoma and
oligodendroglioma after radiation therapy and chemotherapy as well as recurrent or progressive
Grade 3 oligodendroglioma and recurrent or progressive Grade 3 and 4 astrocytoma.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Voranigo will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Astrocytoma/Oligodendroglioma
1. Initial Authorization
a. Voranigo will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) One of the following diagnoses:
(a) Astrocytoma
(b) Oligodendroglioma
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
-AND-
(2) Presence of IDH1 or IDH2 mutation
-AND-
(3) History of one of the following:
(a) Biopsy
(b) Sub-total resection
(c) Gross total resection
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Voranigo will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Voranigo
therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Voranigo [package insert]. Boston, MA: Servier Pharmaceuticals LLC; August 2024.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
www.nccn.org. Accessed October 21, 2024.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Voranigo (vorasidenib)
Change Control
10/2024 New program
12/2024 Removed Grade 2 disease requirement per NCCN Compendium.
Updated background and references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3