UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1460-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Miplyffa™ (arimoclomol)
P&T Approval Date 11/2024, 1/2025
Effective Date 4/1/2025
1. Background:
Miplyffa (arimoclomol) is indicated for use in combination with miglustat for the treatment of
neurological manifestations of Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) in adult and pediatric patients 2
years of age and older.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Miplyffa will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC)
-AND-
b. Miplyffa is being used to treat neurological manifestations of NPC
-AND-
c. Miplyffa is prescribed in combination with miglustat
-AND-
d. Patient is not receiving Miplyffa in combination with Aqneursa (levacetylleucine)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Miplyffa will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Miplyffa (e.g., slowed disease
progression from baseline based on assessment with NPC–specific scales)
-AND-
b. Miplyffa continues to be prescribed in combination with miglustat
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
c. Patient is not receiving Miplyffa in combination with Aqneursa (levacetylleucine)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Miplyffa [package insert]. Celebration, FL: Zevra Therapeutics Inc.; September 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Miplyffa (arimoclomol)
Change Control
Date Change
11/2024 New program.
1/2025 Added criteria that Miplyffa not taken in combination with Aqneursa.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2