UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1374-4
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Scemblix® (asciminib)
P&T Approval Date 12/2021, 12/2022, 12/2023, 12/2024
Effective Date 3/1/2025
1. Background:
Scemblix (asciminib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with
newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia (Ph+ CML) in
chronic phase (CP), previously treated, or with a T315I mutation.
The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) recommends the use of Scemblix for
treatment in myeloid/lymphoid neoplasms with eosinophilia and ABL1 rearrangement in chronic
phase or blast phase and in CML for accelerated phase as primary treatment.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Scemblix will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Philadelphia Chromosome-Positive Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (Ph+CML)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Scemblix will be approved based on all the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)
- AND –
(2) Disease is Philadelphia chromosome (Ph+) or BCR:ABL1-positive
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
- AND -
(3) One of the following:
(a) Used in newly diagnosed chronic phase CML (CP-CML)
- OR -
(b) Used in previously treated chronic phase CML (CP-CML)
- OR -
(c) Used in chronic phase CML (CP-CML) positive for a T315I mutation
- OR -
(d) Used in accelerated phase CML as primary treatment as a single agent
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Scemblix will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Scemblix
therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. Myeloid/Lymphoid Neoplasms with Eosinophilia and ABL1 Gene Rearrangement
1. Initial Authorization
a. Scemblix will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of myeloid/lymphoid neoplasm with eosinophilia and ABL1
rearrangement
- AND -
(2) Disease is in chronic or blast phase
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Scemblix will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Scemblix
therapy
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
D. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits and/or step therapy may be in place.
4. References:
1. Scemblix [package insert]. East Hanover, New Jersey: Novartis Pharmaceuticals
Corporation. October 2024.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
http://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/contents.asp. Accessed on
October 24, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Scemblix (asciminib)
Change Control
12/2021 New program.
12/2022 Annual review. Added state mandate and updated references.
12/2023 Annual review. Added criteria for Myeloid/Lymphoid Neoplasms with
Eosinophilia and ABL1 Gene Rearrangement. Updated references.
12/2024 Annual review. Updated CML criteria per NCCN guidelines and new
expanded indication. Updated background and references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3