UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1370-5
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Welireg™ (belzutifan)
P&T Approval Date 10/2021, 10/2022, 10/2023, 2/2024, 7/2024
Effective Date 10/1/2024
1. Background:
Welireg™ (belzutifan) is a hypoxia-inducible factor inhibitor indicated for treatment of adult
patients with von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease who require therapy for associated renal cell
carcinoma (RCC), central nervous system (CNS) hemangioblastomas, or pancreatic
neuroendocrine tumors (pNET), not requiring immediate surgery. Welireg is also indicated for
the treatment of adult patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) following a
programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1) or programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitor and a
vascular endothelial growth factor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (VEGF-TKI).
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Welireg will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) Disease
1. Initial Authorization
a. Welireg will be approved based on all the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease
-AND-
(2) Patient requires therapy for one of the following:
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
(a) Renal cell carcinoma (RCC)
(b) Central nervous system (CNS) hemangioblastoma
(c) Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor (pNET)
-AND-
(3) Patient does not require immediate surgery
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Welireg will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of disease progression while on Welireg.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma
1. Initial Authorization
a. Welireg will be approved based on all the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC)
-AND-
(2) Disease has progressed after treatment with both of the following:
(a) Programmed death receptor 1 (PD-1) or programmed death ligand 1 (PD-
L1) checkpoint inhibitor [e.g.,Keytruda (pembrolizumab), Opdivo
(nivolumab)]
-AND-
(b) Vascular endothelial growth factor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (VEGF-TKI)
[e.g., Cabometyx (cabozantinib), Inlyta (axitinib), Lenvima (lenvatinitb)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Welireg will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of disease progression while on Welireg.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
D. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Welireg [package insert]. Rathway, NJ: Merck & Co., Inc.; December 2023.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
www.nccn.org. Accessed May 31, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Welireg (belzutifan)
Change Control
10/2021 New program
10/2022 Annual review with no changes to clinical coverage criteria. Added
state mandate footnote. Updated references.
10/2023 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated
references.
2/2024 Added criteria for advanced renal cell carcinoma. Updated background
and references.
7/2024 Updated examples of PD-L1 checkpoint inhibitors and VEGF-TKIs
within advanced RCC criteria.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3