UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1308-6
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Ayvakit® (avapritinib)
P&T Approval Date 2/2020, 2/2021, 9/2021, 9/2022, 7/2023, 7/2024
Effective Date 10/1/2024
1. Background:
Ayvakit (avapritinib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults with unresectable or
metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) harboring a platelet-derived growth factor receptor
alpha (PDGFRA) exon 18 mutation, including PDGFRA D842V mutations. Ayvakit is indicated for
the treatment of adult patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM), including patients with
aggressive systemic mastocytosis (ASM), systemic mastocytosis with an associated hematological
neoplasm (SM-AHN), and mast cell leukemia (MCL). Ayvakit is not recommended for the treatment
of patients with AdvSM with platelet counts of less than 50 x 109/L. Ayvakit is also indicated for the
treatment of indolent systemic mastocytosis (ISM). Ayvakit is not recommended for the treatment of
patients with ISM with platelet counts of less than 50 X 109/L.
The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) also recommends use as single agent therapy
as continued treatment for limited progression of GIST, for unresectable, recurrent, or metastatic
disease after failure on approved therapies. Additionally, NCCN recommends use for treatment of
GIST with PDGFRA exon 18 mutations, including the PDGFRA D842V mutation, for disease that is
unresectable, recurrent, metastatic, gross residual disease (R2 resection), or as treatment for resectable
disease with significant morbidity that is insensitive to imatinib.
The NCCN also recommends use of Ayvakit for treatment for myeloid/lymphoid neoplasms with
eosinophilia and FIP1L1-PDGFRA rearrangement if PDGFRA D842V mutation is found which is
resistant to imatinib.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of 19
years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or under
some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references. Where such
mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Ayvakit will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
B. Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor (GIST)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Ayvakit will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST)
-AND-
(2) One of the following:
(a) Patient has unresectable, recurrent, or metastatic disease after failure on
approved therapies (e.g., imatinib, sunitinib, dasatinib, regorafenib,
ripretinib)
-OR-
(b) Both of the following:
i. Disease is one of the following:
• Unresectable
• Resectable with significant morbidity
• Metastatic
• Recurrent
• Limited progression
• Gross residual disease (R2 resection)
• Residual disease with significant morbidity
-AND-
ii. Presence of a platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRA)
exon mutation, including 18 D842V mutation
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Ayvakit will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Ayvakit
therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. Myeloid/Lymphoid Neoplasms
1. Initial Authorization
a. Ayvakit will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
(1) Diagnosis of myeloid/lymphoid neoplasms with eosinophilia
-AND-
(2) Presence of a FIP1L1-PDGFRA rearrangement
-AND-
(3) Presence of a PDGFRA D842V mutation
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Ayvakit will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Ayvakit
therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
D. Systemic Mastocytosis
1. Initial Authorization
a. Ayvakit will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of one of the following:
(a) Advanced systemic mastocytosis
(b) Aggressive systemic mastocytosis
(c) Systemic mastocytosis with an associated hematologic neoplasm
(d) Mast cell leukemia
(e) Indolent systemic mastocytosis
-AND-
(2) Platelet count is greater than or equal to 50 x 109/L
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Ayvakit will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Ayvakit
therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
E. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Ayvakit [package insert]. Cambridge, MA: Blueprint Medicines Corporation, May 2023.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
https://www.nccn.org/compendia-templates/compendia/nccn-compendia . Accessed on May
29, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Ayvakit (avapritinib)
Change Control
2/2020 New program.
2/2021 Annual review. Updated criteria for GIST according to NCCN
recommendations. Added criteria for Myeloid/Lymphoid neoplasms
according to NCCN recommendations.
9/2021 Added criteria for systemic mastocytosis according to label and NCCN
recommendations.
9/2022 Annual review. Updated GIST criteria per label and NCCN
recommendations. Added state mandate footnote. Updated reference.
7/2023 Annual review. Added criteria for indolent systemic mastocytosis
according to label. Updated GIST criteria following resection per
NCCN recommendations.
7/2024 Annual review. Updated wording of systemic mastocytosis criteria per
NCCN without change to clinical intent. Updated references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4