UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1382-4
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Cibinqo™ (abrocitinib) tablets
P&T Approval Date 3/2022, 3/2023, 3/2024, 4/2025
Effective Date 5/16/2025
1. Background:
Cibinqo is a Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults and pediatric
patients 12 years of age and older with refractory, moderate to severe atopic dermatitis whose
disease is not adequately controlled with other systemic drug products, including biologics, or
when use of those therapies is inadvisable.
Limitation of Use:
Cibinqo is not recommended in combination with other JAK inhibitors, biologic
immunomodulators, or with other immunosuppressants.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Atopic Dermatitis
1. Initial Authorization
a. Cibinqo will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of moderate-to-severe chronic atopic dermatitis
-AND-
(2) History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to at least one systemic drug
product for the treatment of atopic dermatitis
-AND-
(3) Patient is not receiving Cibinqo in combination with any of the following:
(a) Biologic immunomodulator [e.g., Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm), Dupixent
(dupilumab), Ebglyss (lebrikizumab-lbkz), Nemluvio (nemolizumab-ilto)]
(b) Janus kinase inhibitor [e.g., Olumiant (baricitinib), Opzelura (topical
ruxolitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Xeljanz/XR (tofacitinib)]
(c) Potent immunosuppressant (e.g., azathioprine, cyclosporine, mycophenolate
mofetil)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
a. Cibinqo will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Cibinqo therapy
-AND-
(2) Patient is not receiving Cibinqo in combination with any of the following:
(a) Biologic immunomodulator [e.g., Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm), Dupixent
(dupilumab), Ebglyss (lebrikizumab-lbkz), Nemluvio (nemolizumab-ilto)]
(b) Janus kinase inhibitor [e.g., Olumiant (baricitinib), Opzelura (topical
ruxolitinib), Rinvoq (upadacitinib), Xeljanz/XR (tofacitinib)]
(c) Potent immunosuppressant (e.g., azathioprine, cyclosporine, mycophenolate
mofetil)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits, Medical Necessity, and/or Step Therapy may be in place.
4. References:
1. Cibinqo [package insert]. New York, NY: Pfizer Inc.; December 2023.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Cibinqo (abrocitinib)
Change Control
3/2022 New program
3/2023 Annual review. Updated background and criteria to reflect expanded
indication for patients 12 years of age and older. Updated reference.
Added state mandate footnote.
3/2024 Annual review. Removed age requirement from criteria. Updated
reference.
4/2025 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated examples
with no change to clinical intent.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2