UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1297-7
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Rozlytrek™ (entrectinib)
P&T Approval Date 10/2019, 10/2020, 10/2021, 10/2022, 1/2023, 1/2024, 1/2025
Effective Date 4/1/2025
1. Background:
Rozlytrek (entrectinib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of:
• Adult patients with ROS1-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
• Adult and pediatric patients 1 month of age and older with solid tumors that:
have a neurotrophic tyrosine receptor kinase (NTRK) gene fusion without a known
o
acquired resistance mutation,
are metastatic or where surgical resection is likely to result in severe morbidity, and
o
have progressed following treatment or have no satisfactory alternative therapy.
o
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on tumor response rate and durability
of response. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification and
description of clinical benefit in the confirmatory trials.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the notification
criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Rozlytrek will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Rozlytrek will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
-AND-
(2) Disease is ROS1-positive
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Rozlytrek will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Rozlytrek therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. Solid Tumors
1. Initial Authorization
a. Rozlytrek will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Presence of solid tumors (e.g., sarcoma, NSCLC, salivary, breast, thyroid,
colorectal, neuroendocrine, pancreatic, gynecological, cholangiocarcinoma, etc.)
-AND-
(2) Disease is positive for neurotrophic receptor tyrosine kinase (NTRK) gene fusion
(e.g., ETV6-NTRK3, TPM3-NTRK1, LMNA-NTRK1, etc.)
-AND-
(3) Disease is without a known acquired resistance mutation [e.g., TRKA G595R
substitution, TRKA G667C substitution, or other recurrent kinase domain (solvent
front and xDFG) mutations]
-AND-
(4) Disease is one of the following:
(a) Metastatic
(b) Unresectable
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Rozlytrek will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Rozlytrek therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
D. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a Category of
Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Rozlytrek [package insert]. Genentech USA, Inc.: South San Francisco, CA; January 2024.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
http://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/contents.asp. Accessed November
27, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Rozlytrek (entrectinib)
Change Control
10/2019 New program.
10/2020 Annual review. No changes to clinical criteria.
10/2021 Annual review with no changes to clinical criteria. Updated references.
10/2022 Annual review with no changes to clinical criteria. Added state mandate
footnote. Updated references.
1/2023 Removed criteria requiring previous treatment progression or no alternative
therapy based on first line recommendations per NCCN for certain cancers.
Updated reference.
1/2024 Annual review with update to background. No changes to clinical criteria.
Updated references.
1/2025 Annual review with no changes to clinical criteria. Updated references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3