UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1432-4
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Fabhalta® (iptacopan)
P&T Approval Date 2/2024, 4/2024, 10/2024, 5/2025
Effective Date 8/1/2025
1. Background:
Fabhalta (iptacopan) a complement factor B inhibitor, indicated for the treatment of adults with
paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH), the reduction of proteinuria in adults with primary
immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) at risk of rapid disease progression, generally a urine
protein-to-creatinine ratio (UPCR) ≥1.5 g/g, and for the treatment of adults with complement 3
glomerulopathy (C3G), to reduce proteinuria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Fabhalta will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH)
-AND-
(2) One of the following:
(a) Patient will not be prescribed Fabhalta in combination with another
complement inhibitor used for the treatment of PNH (e.g., eculizumab,
Empaveli, PiaSky, Ultomiris)
-OR-
(b) Patient is currently receiving another complement inhibitor (e.g.,
eculizumab, Empaveli, PiaSky, Ultomiris) which will be discontinued and
Fabhalta will be initiated in accordance with the United States Food and
Drug Administration approved labeling
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Fabhalta will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Fabhalta therapy
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
-AND-
(2) Patient is not receiving Fabhalta in combination with another complement
inhibitor used for the treatment of PNH (e.g., eculizumab, Empaveli, PiaSky,
Ultomiris)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Fabhalta will be approved based on all the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN)
-AND-
(2) Patient is at risk of rapid disease progression [e.g., generally a urine protein-to-
creatinine ratio (UPCR) greater than or equal to 1.5 g/g]
-AND-
(3) Used to reduce proteinuria
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Fabhalta will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Fabhalta therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. Complement 3 glomerulopathy (C3G)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Fabhalta will be approved based on both the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of complement 3 glomerulopathy (C3G)
-AND-
(2) Used to reduce proteinuria
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2
a. Fabhalta will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Fabhalta therapy demonstrated
by a reduction in proteinuria
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-
10) and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may also be in place.
4. References:
1. Fabhalta [package insert]. East Hanover, New Jersey: Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation;
March 2025.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Fabhalta® (iptacopan)
Change Control
2/2024 New program
4/2024 Simplified criteria language for converting to new complement inhibitor
therapy.
10/2024 Updated background and added coverage criteria with additional
indication for primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN).
Updated list of examples for combination use requirement for PNH.
Updated reference.
5/2025 Added new indication and criteria for C3 glomerulopathy (C3G).
Replaced Soliris with eculizumab in list of examples of complement
inhibitors. Updated background and references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
3