UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1000-14
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Repository Corticotropins - Acthar Gel® (repository corticotropin
injection), Purified Cortrophin Gel™ (repository corticotropin injection
USP)
P&T Approval Date 5/2012, 4/2013, 2/2014, 5/2014, 5/2015, 4/2016, 4/2017, 4/2018,
4/2019, 4/2020, 5/2021, 3/2022, 3/2023, 3/2024, 3/2025
Effective Date 6/1/2025
1. Background:
Acthar Gel® (repository corticotropin injection) is an adrenocorticotropic hormone
(ACTH) analogue US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) indicated for1:
• Infantile Spasms: As monotherapy for the treatment of infantile spasms in infants
and children under 2 years of age.
• Multiple Sclerosis: For treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis in
adults.
Per labeling, it is suggested that Acthar Gel may be used in the following conditions,
however, it is not indicated for them1:
• Rheumatic Disorders: As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide
the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid
arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose
maintenance therapy), and ankylosing spondylitis.
• Collagen Diseases: During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected
cases of systemic lupus erythematosus and systemic dermatomyositis (polymyositis).
• Dermatologic Diseases: Severe erythema multiforme and Stevens-Johnson
syndrome.
• Allergic States: Serum sickness.
• Ophthalmic Diseases: Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes
involving the eye and its adnexa such as: keratitis, iritis, iridocyclitis, diffuse
posterior uveitis and choroiditis, optic neuritis, chorioretinitis, anterior segment
inflammation.
• Respiratory Diseases: Symptomatic sarcoidosis.
• Edematous State: To induce a diuresis or a remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic
syndrome without uremia of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus erythematosus.
Purified Cortrophin Gel™ (repository corticotropin injection USP) is an
adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) analogue indicated for2:
• Rheumatic disorders: As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide
the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid
arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may require low-dose
maintenance therapy), ankylosing spondylitis, and acute gouty arthritis.
• Collagen diseases: During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected
cases of systemic lupus erythematosus and systemic dermatomyositis (polymyositis).
• Dermatologic diseases: Severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome)
and severe psoriasis.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
• Allergic states: Atopic dermatitis and serum sickness.
• Ophthalmic diseases: Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes
involving the eye and its adnexa such as allergic conjunctivitis, keratitis, iritis and
iridocyclitis, diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis, optic neuritis, chorioretinitis,
and anterior segment inflammation.
• Respiratory diseases: Symptomatic sarcoidosis.
• Edematous states: To induce a diuresis or a remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic
syndrome without uremia of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus erythematosus.
• Nervous system: Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis.
Additional evidence supports the use of repository corticotropin in opsoclonus-
myoclonus syndrome.3-5
Coverage will be provided for members who meet the following criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Infantile Spasms (i.e., West Syndrome)
1. Initial Therapy
a. Acthar Gel and Purified Cortrophin Gel will be approved based on both of the
following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of infantile spasms (West Syndrome)
-AND-
(2) Patient is less than 2 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 4 weeks.
2. Reauthorization
All requests for reauthorization will be denied. All requests for continuation of therapy
must be submitted through the appeals process to the UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
appeals team for consideration.
B. Multiple Sclerosis
1. Initial Therapy
a. Acthar Gel and Purified Cortrophin Gel will be approved based on the following
criterion:
(1) Diagnosis of acute exacerbation of multiple sclerosis
Authorization will be issued for 3 weeks.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
2. Reauthorization
a. Acthar Gel and Purified Cortrophin Gel will be approved based on the following
criterion:
(1) Reauthorization request is for a new (different) episode of acute exacerbation of
multiple sclerosis
Authorization will be issued for 3 weeks.
All requests for reauthorization for treatment of the same exacerbation will be
denied. All requests for continuation of therapy for the same exacerbation must be
submitted through the appeals process to the UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy appeals
team for consideration.
C. Opsoclonus-Myoclonus Syndrome (i.e., Kinsbourne Syndrome) (off-label)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Acthar Gel and Purified Cortrophin Gel will be approved based on the following
criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome (Kinsbourne Syndrome)
Authorization will be issued for 3 months.
2. Reauthorization
All requests for reauthorization will be denied. All requests for continuation of therapy
must be submitted through the appeals process to the UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
appeals team for consideration.
D. Other Conditions:
1. Initial Authorization
a. Purified Cortrophin Gel will be approved based on one the following criteria:
(1) Rheumatic disorders: As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to
tide the patient over an acute episode or exacerbation) in psoriatic arthritis,
rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (selected cases may
require low-dose maintenance therapy), ankylosing spondylitis, or acute gouty
arthritis.
-OR-
(2) Collagen diseases: During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected
cases of systemic lupus erythematosus or systemic dermatomyositis
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3
(polymyositis).
-OR-
(3) Dermatologic diseases: Severe erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson
syndrome) or severe psoriasis.
-OR-
(4) Allergic states: Atopic dermatitis or serum sickness.
-OR-
(5) Ophthalmic diseases: Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory
processes involving the eye and its adnexa such as: Allergic conjunctivitis,
keratitis, iritis and iridocyclitis, diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis, optic
neuritis, chorioretinitis, or anterior segment inflammation.
-OR-
(6) Respiratory diseases: Symptomatic sarcoidosis.
-OR-
(7) Edematous states: To induce a diuresis or a remission of proteinuria in the
nephrotic syndrome without uremia of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus
erythematosus.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Purified Cortrophin Gel will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Purified Cortrophin Gel therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes
(ICD-10) and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes
varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits and/or Step Therapy may be in place.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
4
4. References:
1. Acthar Gel [package insert]. Bridgewater, NJ: Mallinckrodt ARD LLC.; February
2024.
2. Purified Cortrophin Gel [package insert]. Baudette, MN: ANI Pharmaceuticals, Inc.;
December 2024.
3. Pranzatelli MR, Huang YY, Tate E, et al. Monoaminergic effects of high-dose
corticotropin in corticotropin-responsive pediatric opsoclonus-myoclonus. Mov
Disord. 1998;13(3):522-528.
4. Pranzatelli MR, Chun KY, Moxness M, Tate ED, Allison TJ. Cerebrospinal fluid
ACTH and cortisol in opsoclonus-myoclonus: effect of therapy. Pediatr Neurol.
2005;33(2):121-126.
5. Tate ED, Pranzatelli MR, Verhulst SJ, et al. Active comparator-controlled, rater-
blinded study of corticotropin-based immunotherapies for opsoclonus-myoclonus
syndrome [published correction appears in J Child Neurol. 2012 Oct;27(10):1364.
Dosage error in article text]. J Child Neurol. 2012;27(7):875-884.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - H.P. Acthar Gel (Repository
corticotropin injection)
Change Control
2/2014 Clarified reviewer designation for initial and reauthorization requests in
Coverage Criteria.
5/2014 Updated background and coverage criteria to only allow coverage for
IS, MS and OMS.
5/2015 Annual review with no change to clinical coverage.
4/2016 Annual review with no change to clinical coverage. Updated
references.
4/2017 Annual review with no change to clinical coverage. Updated
references.
4/2018 Annual review with no change to clinical coverage. Updated
references.
4/2019 Annual review with no change to clinical coverage. Updated reference.
4/2020 Annual review with no change to clinical coverage. Updated reference.
5/2021 Annual review with no change to clinical coverage. Updated reference.
3/2022 Added Purified Cortrophin Gel to program. Updated program name,
background and references.
3/2023 Annual review with minor formatting updates to coverage criteria.
Added state mandate footnote and updated references.
3/2024 Annual review with no changes to criteria. Updated references.
3/2025 Annual review. Removed references to OptumRx throughout criteria
without changes to intent of criteria. Updated background and
references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
5