UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1468-1
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Ensacove (ensartinib)
P&T Approval Date 2/2025
Effective Date 5/1/2025
1. Background:
Ensacove (ensartinib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adult patients with
anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung
cancer (NSCLC) who have not previously received an ALK-inhibitor. The National Cancer
Comprehensive Network (NCCN) also recommends the use of Ensacove as a preferred first-line,
single agent therapy for ALK-positive recurrent, advanced, or metastatic disease in patients who
are intolerant to or disease has progressed on Xalkori (crizotinib).
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Ensacove will be approved based on the following criterion
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
B. Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Ensacove will be approved based on all the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
-AND-
(2) Tumor is anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
(3) Disease is one of the following:
(a) Advanced
(b) Metastatic
(c) Recurrent
-AND-
(4) One of the following:
(a) Patient has not previously received an ALK-inhibitor [e.g. Alecensa
(alectinib), Alunbrig (brigatinib), Lorbrena (lorlatinib), Xalkori (crizotinib),
Zykadia (ceritinib)]
-OR-
(b) Patient is intolerant to or experiences disease progression on Xalkori
(crizotinib)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
2. Reauthorization
a. Ensacove will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Ensacove
therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2
4. References:
1. Ensacove [package insert]. Miami, FL: Xcovery Holdings, Inc; December, 2024.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
http://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/contents.asp. Accessed January 7,
2025.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Ensacove (ensartinib)
Change Control
2/2025 New program.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
3