UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1261-8
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Copiktra® (duvelisib)
P&T Approval Date 11/2018, 11/2019, 11/2020, 11/2021,5/2022, 5/2023, 5/2024, 5/2025
Effective Date 8/1/2025
1. Background:
Copiktra (duvelisib) is a dual inhibitor of phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Kδ and PI3Kγ)
indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic
leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) after at least two prior therapies.1
The National Cancer Comprehensive Network (NCCN) also recommends the use of Copiktra
for the treatment of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma after two first-line therapy regimens and as
second-line and subsequent therapy for relapsed/refractory breast implant-associated anaplastic
large cell lymphoma (ALCL). The NCCN also recommends Copiktra as initial palliative intent
therapy or second-line and subsequent therapy for relapsed/refractory for certain peripheral T-
cell lymphomas.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age
of 19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Copiktra will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Member is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL)
1. Initial Authorization
a. Copiktra will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic
lymphoma (SLL)
-AND-
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
(2) Disease is relapsed or refractory
-AND-
(3) History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to at least two prior therapies
for CLL/SLL. Examples include, but not limited to, regimens consisting of:
Leukeran (chlorambucil), Gazyva (obinutuzumab), Arzerra (ofatumumab),
Bendeka (bendamustine), Imbruvica (ibrutinib), Calquence (acalabrutinib),
Venclexta (venetoclax), etc.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Copiktra will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Copiktra
therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. T-cell Lymphomas
1. Initial Authorization
a. Copiktra will be approved based on one of the following criteria:
(1) All of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma
-AND-
(b) Disease is relapsed or refractory
-AND-
(c) History of failure, contraindication, or intolerance to at least two prior
systemic therapies
-OR-
(2) All of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of Breast implant-associated anaplastic large cell lymphoma
-AND-
(b) Disease is relapsed or refractory
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2
-AND-
(c) Used as second-line and subsequent therapy
-OR-
(3) Both of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of Peripheral T-cell lymphoma
-AND-
(b) One of the following:
i. Used as initial palliative intent therapy
ii. Used as second-line and subsequent therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Copiktra will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Copiktra
therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
D. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
3
4. References:
1. Copiktra [package insert]. Las Vegas, NV: Secura Bio; July 2024.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
https://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/. Accessed on March 31, 2025.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Copiktra (duvelisib)
Change Control
11/2018 New program.
11/2019 Annual review. Added coverage for additional B cell lymphomas.
Added NCCN recommended regimens criteria. Updated background
and references.
11/2020 Annual review. Added additional first line NCCN treatment examples.
No change to clinical criteria. Updated references.
11/2021 Annual review with no change to clinical criteria. Updated reference.
5/2022 Annual review. Removed coverage for gastric and nongastric MALT
lymphomas, splenic marginal zone lymphoma, and nodal marginal zone
lymphoma. Added coverage for T-cell lymphomas. Updated
background and references.
5/2023 Annual review. Added state mandate. Updated the background with no
changes to clinical criteria. Updated references.
5/2024 Annual review with no change to clinical criteria. Updated reference.
5/2025 Annual review. Updated criteria for peripheral T-cell Lymphoma based
on NCCN guidance. Updated references and background.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
4