UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1407-3
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Orserdu™ (elacestrant)
P&T Approval Date 3/2023, 3/2024, 3/2025
Effective Date 6/1/2025
1. Background:
Orserdu (elacestrant) is an estrogen receptor antagonist indicated for treatment of postmenopausal
women or adult men, with estrogen receptor (ER)-positive, human epidermal growth factor
receptor 2 (HER2)-negative, ESR1-mutated advanced or metastatic breast cancer with disease
progression following at least one line of endocrine therapy. NCCN also recommends for
premenopausal women treated with ovarian ablation/suppression.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the notification
criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Orserdu will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Breast Cancer
1. Initial Authorization
a. Orserdu will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of breast cancer
-AND-
(2) One of the following:
(a) Advanced
(b) Metastatic
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
-AND-
(3) Disease is estrogen receptor (ER)-positive
-AND-
(4) Disease is human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative
-AND-
(5) Presence of an ESR1 gene mutation
-AND-
(6) Patient is one of the following:
(a) Postmenopausal woman
(b) Male
(c) Premenopausal woman treated with ovarian ablation/suppression
-AND-
(7) Disease has progressed following at least one line of endocrine therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Orserdu will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Orserdu therapy.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
1. The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Orserdu [package insert]. New York, NY: Stemline Therapeutics, Inc.; November 2023.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium®). Available at
www.nccn.org. Accessed February 7, 2025.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Orserdu (elacestrant)
Change Control
3/2023 New program.
3/2024 Annual review. Added premenopausal women treated with ovarian
ablation/suppression to coverage criteria per NCCN. Updated
background and references.
3/2025 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3