UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1417-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Vanflyta® (quizartinib)
P&T Approval Date 9/2023, 9/2024
Effective Date 11/17/2024
1. Background:
Vanflyta (quizartinib) is a kinase inhibitor indicated in combination with standard cytarabine
and anthracycline induction and cytarabine consolidation, and as maintenance monotherapy
following consolidation chemotherapy, for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed
acute myeloid leukemia (AML) that is FLT3 internal tandem duplication (ITD)-positive as
detected by an FDA-approved test. NCCN also recommends Vanflyta for the treatment of
relapsed/refractory disease as a component of repeating the initial successful induction regimen
or as a single agent.
Limitations of Use:
Vanflyta is not indicated as maintenance monotherapy following allogeneic hematopoietic stem
cell transplantation (HSCT); improvement in overall survival with Vanflyta in this setting has
not been demonstrated.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age
of 19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Vanflyta will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Acute Myeloid Leukemia
1. Initial Authorization
a. Vanflyta will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of acute myeloid leukemia (AML)
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
-AND-
(2) Disease is FLT3 internal tandem duplication (ITD) positive
-AND-
(3) One of the following:
i. Vanflyta will be used in combination with standard cytarabine and
anthracycline induction and cytarabine consolidation, and as maintenance
monotherapy following consolidation chemotherapy
-OR-
ii. Vanflyta will be used for patients with relapsed/refractory disease as a
component of repeating the initial successful induction regimen or as a
single agent.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Vanflyta will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Vanflyta
therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limit may be in place.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
4. References:
1. Vanflyta [package insert]. Basking Ridge, NJ: Daiichi Sankyo, Inc.; July 2023.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
www.nccn.org . Accessed August 8, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Vanflyta (quizartinib)
Change Control
9/2023 New program
9/2024 Annual review. Added coverage on relapsed/refractory disease per NCCN
recommendations. Updated references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3