UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1415-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medications Tezspire™ (tezepelumab-ekko)*
*This program applies to the prefilled pen for self-administration.
P&T Approval Date 7/2023, 7/2024
Effective Date 10/1/2024
1. Background:
Tezspire (tezepelumab) is indicated for the add-on maintenance treatment of adult and pediatric
patients aged 12 years and older with severe asthma.
Limitations of use:
Tezspire is not indicated for relief of acute bronchospasm of status asthmaticus.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Severe Asthma
1. Initial Authorization
a. Tezspire will be approved based on one of the following criteria:
(1) All of the following:
(a) Patient has been established on therapy with Tezspire under an active
UnitedHealthcare medical benefit prior authorization for the treatment of
severe asthma
-AND-
(b) Documentation of positive clinical response to Tezspire therapy
-AND-
(c) Tezspire is being used as add-on maintenance therapy
-AND-
(d) Patient is not receiving Tezspire in combination with any of the following:
i. Anti-interleukin 5 therapy [e.g., Cinqair (resilizumab), Fasenra
(benralizumab), Nucala (mepolizumab)]
ii. Anti-IgE therapy [e.g., Xolair (omalizumab)]
iii. Anti-interleukin 4 therapy [e.g., Dupixent (dupilumab)]
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
-OR-
(2) All of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of severe asthma
-AND-
(b) Tezspire is being used as add-on maintenance therapy
-AND-
(c) Patient is not receiving Tezspire in combination with any of the following:
i. Anti-interleukin 5 therapy [e.g., Cinqair (resilizumab), Fasenra
(benralizumab), Nucala (mepolizumab)]
ii. Anti-IgE therapy [e.g., Xolair (omalizumab)]
iii. Anti-interleukin 4 therapy [e.g., Dupixent (dupilumab)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Tezspire will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Documentation of positive clinical response to Tezspire therapy
-AND-
(2) Tezspire is being used as add-on maintenance therapy
-AND-
(3) Patient is not receiving Tezspire in combination with any of the following:
(a) Anti-interleukin 5 therapy [e.g., Cinqair (resilizumab), Fasenra
(benralizumab), Nucala (mepolizumab)]
(b) Anti-IgE therapy [e.g., Xolair (omalizumab)]
(c) Anti-interleukin 4 therapy [e.g., Dupixent (dupilumab)]
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
3. Additional Clinical Programs:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limitations may be in place.
• Medical Necessity may be in place.
• The single-dose vial and pre-filled syringe for administration by a healthcare professional is
typically covered under the medical benefit. Please refer to the United Healthcare Medical
Benefit Drug Policy: “Tezspire™ (tezepelumab-ekko).”
3. References:
1. Tezspire™ [package insert]. Thousand Oakes, CA: Amgen Inc.; May 2023.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Tezspire (tezepelumab)
Change Control
7/2023 New program.
7/2024 Annual review. Specified existing prior authorization for under the
medical benefit. Updated reference.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3