UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1270-7
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Daurismo™ (glasdegib)
P&T Approval Date 1/2019, 1/2020, 1/2021, 1/2022, 1/2023, 1/2024, 1/2025
Effective Date 4/1/2025
1. Background:
Daurismo™ (glasdegib) is a hedgehog pathway inhibitor indicated, in combination with low-dose
cytarabine, for the treatment of newly-diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in adult patients
who are ≥75 years old or who have comorbidities that preclude use of intensive induction
chemotherapy.
The National Cancer Comprehensive Network (NCCN) also recommends the use of Daurismo for
relapsed/refractory disease as a component of repeating the initial successful induction regimen if
late relapse (≥12 months since induction regimen) if not administered continuously and not
stopped due to development of clinical resistance.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the notification
criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Daurismo will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Acute Myeloid Leukemia
1. Initial Authorization
a. Daurismo will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) One of the following:
(a) Diagnosis of newly-diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML)
(b) Relapsed/refractory disease with all of the following:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
i. Given as a component of repeating the initial successful induction regimen
ii. Late relapse (≥12 months since induction regimen)
iii. Initial therapy was not administered continuously
iv. Initial therapy was not stopped due to development of clinical resistance
-AND-
(2) Daurismo therapy to be given in combination with low-dose cytarabine
-AND-
(3) One of the following:
(a) Patient is ≥ 75 years old
(b) Patient has significant comorbidities that preclude the use of intensive induction
chemotherapy (e.g., severe cardiac disease, ECOG performance status ≥ 2,
baseline creatinine >1.3 mg/dL).
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Daurismo will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Daurismo therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a Category of
Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Daurismo [package insert]. Pfizer Labs: New York, NY; March 2023.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
http://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/contents.asp. Accessed November
22, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Daurismo™ (glasdegib)
Change Control
1/2019 New program
1/2020 Annual review. Added general NCCN recommendations for use
criteria. Updated coverage criteria to include examples of significant
comorbidities and references.
1/2021 Annual review. Updated criteria per NCCN recommendations.
Updated references.
1/2022 Annual review with no change to clinical criteria. Updated reference.
1/2023 Annual review with no change to clinical criteria. Added state mandate
and updated references.
1/2024 Annual review with no change to clinical criteria. Updated reference.
1/2025 Annual review with no change to clinical criteria. Updated references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3