UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1312-6
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Tazverik® (tazemetostat)
P&T Approval Date 3/2020, 3/3021, 3/2022, 3/2023, 3/2024, 3/2025
Effective Date 6/1/2025
1. Background:
Tazverik (tazemetostat) is a methyltransferase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of adults and
pediatric patients aged 16 years and older with metastatic or locally advanced epithelioid sarcoma
not eligible for complete resection, adult patients with relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma
whose tumors are positive for an EZH2 mutation as detected by an FDA-approved test and who
have received at least 2 prior systemic therapies, or adult patients with relapsed or refractory
follicular lymphoma who have no satisfactory alternative treatment options.
These indications are approved under accelerated approval based on overall response rate and
duration of response. Continued approval for these indications may be contingent upon
verification and description of clinical benefit in a confirmatory trial(s).
The National Cancer Comprehensive Network (NCCN) also recommends the use of Tazverik in
classic follicular lymphoma as preferred second-line therapy irrespective of EZH2 mutation status
for older or infirm patients, or third-line and subsequent therapy (if not previously given)
irrespective of EZH2 mutation status in patients with indications for treatment who have
relapsed/refractory disease.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Tazverik will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Epithelioid Sarcoma
1. Initial Authorization
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
a. Tazverik will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of epithelioid sarcoma
-AND-
(2) Disease is one of the following
(a) Metastatic
(b) Locally advanced
-AND-
(3) Disease is not eligible for complete resection
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Tazverik will be approved based on the following criterion:
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Tazverik therapy.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. Follicular Lymphoma
1. Initial Authorization
a. Tazverik will be approved based on both of the following criteria:
(1) Diagnosis of relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma
-AND-
(2) One of the following:
(a) Subsequent therapy in EZH2 mutation positive disease after 2 prior therapies
(b) Second-line therapy irrespective of EZH2 mutation status for older or infirm
patients with indications for treatment (i.e., other therapy options are not
expected to be tolerable)
(c) Third-line and/or subsequent therapy (if not previously given) irrespective of
EZH2 mutation status in patients with indications for treatment
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
2. Reauthorization
a. Tazverik will be approved based on the following criterion:
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2
(1) Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Tazverik therapy.
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
D. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a Category of
Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific benefit
plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization management
programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Tazverik [package insert]. Cambridge, MA: Epizyme, Inc. August 2024.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
https://www.nccn.org. Accessed February 12, 2025.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Tazverik
Change Control
3/2020 New program.
3/2021 Annual review. Added coverage criteria for new indication for
follicular lymphoma. Updated references.
3/2022 Annual review. Added unknown EZH2 mutation status to criteria per
NCCN guidelines. Updated references.
3/2023 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Added state
mandate footnote and updated references.
3/2024 Annual review. Added NCCN recommendations to background section.
Added criteria to relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma based on
NCCN recommendations. Updated references.
3/2025 Annual review with no changes to coverage criteria. Updated
references.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
3