UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 1463-1
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Livdelzi® (seladelpar)
P&T Approval Date 12/2024
Effective Date 3/1/2025
1. Background:
Livdelzi (seladelpar) is a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-delta agonist
indicated for the treatment of primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) in combination with
ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) in adults who have an inadequate response to UDCA, or as
monotherapy in patients unable to tolerate UDCA.
This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on a reduction of alkaline
phosphatase (ALP). Improvement in survival or prevention of liver decompensation events have
not been demonstrated. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon
verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trial(s).1
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Livdelzi will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of primary biliary cholangitis
-AND-
b. Patient does not have decompensated cirrhosis
-AND-
c. One of the following:
(1) Both of the following:
(a) Used in combination with ursodeoxycholic acid (e.g., Urso, ursodiol)
(b) Patient has not achieved an adequate response to an appropriate dosage of
ursodeoxycholic acid (e.g., Urso, ursodiol) after at least 12 consecutive
months of therapy
-OR-
(2) History of contraindication or intolerance to ursodeoxycholic acid (e.g., Urso,
ursodiol)
Initial authorization will be issued for 12 months
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
B. Reauthorization
1. Livdelzi will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Livdelzi therapy
Reauthorization will be issued for 12 months
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place
• Medical necessity may be in place
• Step Therapy may be in place
4. References:
1. Livdelzi [package insert]. Foster City, CA: Gilead Sciences, Inc.; August 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification – Livdelzi (seladelpar)
Change Control
Date Change
12/2024 New program.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2