UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 1421-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Akeega™ (niraparib and abiraterone acetate)
P&T Approval Date 11/2023, 11/2024
Effective Date 2/1/2025
1. Background:
Akeega (niraparib and abiraterone acetate) is a combination of niraparib, a poly (ADP-ribose)
polymerase (PARP) inhibitor, and abiraterone acetate, a CYP17 inhibitor indicated with
prednisone for the treatment of adult patients with deleterious or suspected deleterious BRCA-
mutated (BRCAm) metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). Select patients for
therapy based on an FDA-approved test for Akeega.
Coverage Information:
Members will be required to meet the criteria below for coverage. For members under the age of
19 years, the prescription will automatically process without a coverage review.
Some states mandate benefit coverage for off-label use of medications for some diagnoses or
under some circumstances. Some states also mandate usage of other Compendium references.
Where such mandates apply, they supersede language in the benefit document or in the
notification criteria.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Patients less than 19 years of age
1. Akeega will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Member is less than 19 years of age
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Initial Authorization
1. Akeega will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC)
-AND-
b. Deleterious or suspected deleterious BRCA-mutated (BRCAm)
-AND-
c. Used in combination with prednisone
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
C. Reauthorization
1. Akeega will be approved based on the following criterion:
a. Patient does not show evidence of progressive disease while on Akeega therapy
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
D. NCCN Recommended Regimens
The drug has been recognized for treatment of the cancer indication by The National
Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Drugs and Biologics Compendium with a
Category of Evidence and Consensus of 1, 2A, or 2B
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by
program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Akeega [package insert]. Horsham, PA: Janssen Biotech, Inc.; August 2023.
2. The NCCN Drugs and Biologics Compendium (NCCN Compendium™). Available at
http://www.nccn.org/professionals/drug_compendium/content/contents.asp. Accessed
September 26, 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Akeega (niraparib and abiraterone
acetate)
Change Control
11/2023 New program
11/2024 Annual review. No changes to criteria. Updated references.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2