UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2025 P 1461-2
Program Prior Authorization/Notification
Medication Aqneursa™ (levacetylleucine)
P&T Approval Date 11/2024, 1/2025
Effective Date 4/1/2025
1. Background:
Aqneursa (levacetylleucine) is indicated for the treatment of neurological manifestations of
Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) in adults and pediatric patients weighing ≥15 kg.
2. Coverage Criteriaa:
A. Initial Authorization
1. Aqneursa will be approved based on all of the following criteria:
a. Diagnosis of Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC)
-AND-
b. Aqneursa is being used to treat neurological manifestations of NPC
-AND-
c. Patient is not receiving Aqneursa in combination with Miplyffa (arimoclomol)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
B. Reauthorization
1. Aqneursa will be approved based on both the following criteria:
a. Documentation of positive clinical response to Aqneursa (e.g., slowed disease
progression from baseline based on assessment with NPC–specific scales)
-AND-
b. Patient is not receiving Aqneursa in combination with Miplyffa (arimoclomol)
Authorization will be issued for 12 months.
a State mandates may apply. Any federal regulatory requirements and the member specific
benefit plan coverage may also impact coverage criteria. Other policies and utilization
management programs may apply.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
1
3. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-authorization
based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10) and/or claim logic.
Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
4. References:
1. Aqneursa [package insert]. Austin TX: IntraBio Inc.; September 2024.
Program Prior Authorization/Notification - Aqneursa (levacetylleucine)
Change Control
Date Change
11/2024 New program.
1/2025 Added criteria that Aqneursa not taken in combination with Miplyffa.
© 2025 UnitedHealthcare Services Inc.
2