UnitedHealthcare Pharmacy
Clinical Pharmacy Programs
Program Number 2024 P 4030-3
Program Therapeutic Duplication – administrative override
Medication Therapeutic Duplication
P&T Approval Date 12/2023, 2/2024, 8/2024
Effective Date 9/15/2024
1. Background:
A concurrent DUR (cDUR) program screens all retail and mail service prescription claims at
the point of service before the drug is dispensed. The cDUR system screens each prescription
against the member’s prescription drug history. The system evaluates drug prescribing and
utilization, including therapeutic duplication, as well as drug interactions to improve quality
and cost effectiveness of dispensed medications by helping to ensure that adjudicated and
covered prescriptions are clinically appropriate. The program includes communication avenues
through claims edits and messaging to the dispensing pharmacy at point-of-service.
The following situations would result in application of the therapeutic duplication edit:
• The requested medication has been utilized concurrently with a different drug in the same
therapeutic class per recent prescription claims history.
• The requested medication has been utilized concurrently in a different dosage of the same
medication per recent prescription claims history.
• The requested medication has been utilized concurrently with a different drug in a different
therapeutic class per recent prescription claims history, when the two medications share the
same clinical indication but lack support for concomitant use from evidence-based
medicine.
2. Drug Classes Subject to a Therapeutic Duplication Edit:
A. Drug Classes Subject to Therapeutic Duplication Edit (Reject 88):
Both brand and generic versions of medications are subject to edit
B. Diabetes Agents
GLP-1 Receptor Agonists
GLP-1 Receptor Agonists/DPP4 inhibitors
3. Coverage Criteria:
Therapeutic Duplication criteria
The requested medication that is subject to the therapeutic duplication edit will be approved based
on one of the following criteria:
A. The requested medication will be used exclusively, and the previously
prescribed medication will be discontinued
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
1
-OR-
B. Special circumstances exist that necessitate the need for duplicate therapy such as a
nationally recognized drug shortage (document special circumstances)
Authorization will be issued for 2 weeks
4. Additional Clinical Rules:
• Notwithstanding Coverage Criteria, UnitedHealthcare may approve initial and re-
authorization based solely on previous claim/medication history, diagnosis codes (ICD-10)
and/or claim logic. Use of automated approval and re-approval processes varies by program
and/or therapeutic class.
• Supply limits may be in place.
Program Prior Authorization – Therapeutic Duplication
Change Control
12/2023 New program
2/2024 Updated authorization duration to 2 weeks.
8/2024 Added GLP1/DPP4 combinations.
© 2024 UnitedHealthcare Services, Inc.
2