Cigna National Formulary Coverage Policy
Step Therapy

Cycloxygenase-2 Inhibitor – Celebrex (celecoxib capsules – generic)
Table of Contents Product Identifier(s)
National Formulary Medical Necessity ................ 1 Effective 1/1/23 to 2/27/23: 109120
Conditions Not Covered....................................... 3
Background .......................................................... 3 Effective 2/28/23: 14735
References .......................................................... 4
Revision History ................................................... 4
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
The following Coverage Policy applies to health benefit plans administered by Cigna Companies. Certain Cigna Companies and/or lines of
business only provide utilization review services to clients and do not make coverage determinations. References to standard benefit plan
language and coverage determinations do not apply to those clients. Coverage Policies are intended to provide guidance in interpreting
certain standard benefit plans administered by Cigna Companies. Please note, the terms of a customer’s particular benefit plan document
[Group Service Agreement, Evidence of Coverage, Certificate of Coverage, Summary Plan Description (SPD) or similar plan document] may
differ significantly from the standard benefit plans upon which these Coverage Policies are based. For example, a customer’s benefit plan
document may contain a specific exclusion related to a topic addressed in a Coverage Policy. In the event of a conflict, a customer’s benefit
plan document always supersedes the information in the Coverage Policies. In the absence of a controlling federal or state coverage
mandate, benefits are ultimately determined by the terms of the applicable benefit plan document. Coverage determinations in each specific
instance require consideration of 1) the terms of the applicable benefit plan document in effect on the date of service; 2) any applicable
laws/regulations; 3) any relevant collateral source materials including Coverage Policies and; 4) the specific facts of the particular
situation. Coverage Policies relate exclusively to the administration of health benefit plans. Coverage Policies are not recommendations for
treatment and should never be used as treatment guidelines. In certain markets, delegated vendor guidelines may be used to support
medical necessity and other coverage determinations.
National Formulary Medical Necessity
Drugs Affected
• Celebrex® (celecoxib capsules)
This program has been developed to encourage the use of two Step 1 Products (oral NSAIDs) prior to the use of
the Step 2 Product (generic celecoxib). Approval for a Step 3 Product (brand Celebrex) may be authorized if the
individual has tried two Step 1 Products (oral NSAIDs) and has tried the Step 2 Product (generic celecoxib). If
the Step Therapy rule is not met for the requested Product at the point of service, coverage will be determined by
the Step Therapy criteria below. All approvals are provided for the duration noted below.
Step 1 (oral NSAIDs):
• Cataflam
• diclofenac potassium
• diclofenac sodium (IR and ER)
• diclofenac sodium and misoprostol
Page 1 of 4
Cigna National Formulary Coverage Policy: ST Cycloxygenase-2 Inhibitor – Celebrex
• etodolac (IR and ER)
• fenoprofen
• flurbiprofen
• ibuprofen
• indomethacin (IR and ER)
• ketoprofen IR 50 mg and 75 mg
• ketorolac (tablets)
• meclofenamate
• mefenamic acid
• meloxicam
• nabumetone
• naproxen**
• oxaprozin
• piroxicam
• sulindac
• tolmetin**
**Some generic naproxen and tolmetin products are not Step 1 products
Step 2: generic celecoxib capsules
Step 3: brand Celebrex capsules
Cigna covers Step 2 and Step 3 agents as medically necessary when the following criteria are met:
1. Approve the Step 2 Product (generic celecoxib) for 1 year if the individual meets one of the following (A, B,
C, D, or E):
A) Individual has tried two Step 1 Products (oral NSAIDs), either as prescription products or as over-the-
counter (OTC) products, at prescription-strength doses for the current condition; OR
B) Individual is currently taking chronic systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., prednisone), warfarin,
clopidogrel, prasugrel, Brilinta (ticagrelor tablets), Xarelto (rivaroxaban tablets and oral suspension),
Pradaxa (dabigatran capsules), Eliquis (apixaban tablets), Savaysa (edoxaban tablets), chronic aspirin
therapy, fondaparinux injection or a low molecular weight heparin product (i.e., enoxaparin injection,
Fragmin [dalteparin injection]); OR
C) Individual has reduced platelet counts or other coagulation disorders; OR
D) Individual is > 75 years of age and is using celecoxib for a chronic condition; OR
E) Individual has had a documented upper gastrointestinal bleed from a duodenal or gastric ulcer.
2. Approve the Step 2 Product (generic celecoxib) for 30 days if the individual is using the product during the
preoperative/perioperative/postoperative period.
3. Approve the Step 3 Product (brand Celebrex) for 1 year if the individual meets the following (A and B):
A) Individual meets one of the following (i, ii, iii, iv, or v):
i. Individual has tried two Step 1 products (oral NSAIDs) either as prescription products or as over-the-
counter (OTC) products at prescription-strength doses, for the current condition; OR
ii. Individual is currently taking chronic systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., prednisone), warfarin,
clopidogrel, prasugrel, Brilinta (ticagrelor tablets), Xarelto (rivaroxaban tablets and oral suspension),
Pradaxa (dabigatran capsules), Eliquis (apixaban tablets), Savaysa (edoxaban tablets), chronic
aspirin therapy, fondaparinux injection, or a low molecular weight heparin product (i.e., enoxaparin
injection, Fragmin [dalteparin injection]); OR
iii. Individual has reduced platelet counts or other coagulation disorders; OR
iv. Individual is > 75 years of age and is using celecoxib for a chronic condition; OR
v. Individual has had a documented upper gastrointestinal bleed from a duodenal or gastric ulcer; AND
B) Individual has tried the Step 2 Product (generic celecoxib).
Page 2 of 4
Cigna National Formulary Coverage Policy: ST Cycloxygenase-2 Inhibitor – Celebrex
4. Approve the Step 3 Product (brand Celebrex) for 30 days if the individual meets both of the following (A and
B):
A) Individual is using the product during the preoperative/perioperative/postoperative period.
B) Individual has tried the Step 2 Product (generic celecoxib).
Conditions Not Covered
Any other exception is considered not medically necessary.
Background
Overview
Celecoxib (Celebrex, generic) is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) indicated for the following uses:1
• Osteoarthritis (OA);
• Rheumatoid arthritis;
• Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis in patients ≥ 2 years of age;
• Ankylosing spondylitis;
• Acute pain; and
• Primary dysmenorrhea.
Celecoxib works primarily by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis by way of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and at
therapeutic concentrations in humans, celecoxib does not inhibit the cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) isoenzyme.1
Overall, it appears that celecoxib and NSAIDs have similar clinical efficacy at equipotent doses for the management
of acute and chronic pain and other conditions associated with pain; however, individual responses to NSAIDs vary
among patients for reasons that are not well understood.
Guidelines/Consensus Statements
American College of Rheumatology (ACR) OA guidelines (2019) do not address the relative merits of different
NSAIDs.2 However, older ACR OA guidelines (2012) provide recommendations for use of a COX-2 inhibitor in
certain settings (e.g., history of upper gastrointestinal [GI] bleed).3 OA Research Society International guidelines
(2019) for non-surgical management of knee, hip, and polyarticular OA also comment on the role of COX-2
inhibitors.4 In the setting of knee OA, COX-2 inhibitors and other NSAIDs are given equal support (Level 1B) for
patients without comorbidities. For patients with GI comorbidities, COX-2 inhibitors are preferred (Level 1B) over
nonselective NSAIDs + proton pump inhibitor (Level 2). Recommendations are overall similar for hip and
polyarticular OA.
Per the American Geriatrics Society updated Beers Criteria (2019), several nonselective NSAIDs are noted to
increase the risk of GI bleeding or peptic ulcer disease in high-risk groups, including patients > 75 years of age
or taking parenteral corticosteroids, anticoagulants, or antiplatelet agents.5 The quality of evidence is moderate
and the strength of the recommendation is strong. The Beers Criteria also note that in patients with a history of
gastric or duodenal ulcers, non-COX-2 selective NSAIDs should be avoided because it may exacerbate existing
ulcers or cause new or additional ulcers.
Surgery
Guidelines on the management of postoperative pain from the American Pain Society (2016) recommend
acetaminophen and/or NSAIDs as part of multimodal analgesia for management of postoperative pain in patients
without contraindications.6 It is noted that GI risks are thought to be lower with celecoxib vs. nonselective
NSAIDs. Celecoxib is also recommended preoperatively for patients who are undergoing major surgery;
association with reduced opioid requirements is noted in the guideline. The evidence was considered insufficient
to recommend a preoperative dose of nonselective NSAIDs.
Page 3 of 4
Cigna National Formulary Coverage Policy: ST Cycloxygenase-2 Inhibitor – Celebrex
References
1. Celebrex capsules [prescribing information]. New York, NY: Pfizer; April 2021.
2. Kolasinski SL, Neogi T, Hochberg MC, et al. 2019 American College of Rheumatology/Arthritis Foundation
guidelines for the management of osteoarthritis of the hand, hip, and knee. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken).
2020;72(2):149-162.
3. Hochberg MC, Altman RD, Toupin K, et al. American College of Rheumatology 2012 recommendations for
the use of nonpharmacologic and pharmacologic therapies in osteoarthritis of the hand, hip, and knee.
Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken). 2012;64(4):465-474.
4. Bannuru RR, Osani MC, Baysbrot EE, et al. OARSI guidelines for the non-surgical management of knee,
hip, and polyarticular osteoarthritis. Osteoarthritis Cartilage. 2019;27(11):1578-1589.
5. The American Geriatric Society 2019 Beers Criteria Update Expert Panel. American Geriatric Society 2019
Updated Beers Criteria for potentially inappropriate medication use in older adults. J Am Geriatr Soc.
2019;67:674-594.
6. Chou R, Gordon DB, de Leon-Casasola OA, et al. Management of postoperative pain: a clinical practice
guidelines from the American Pain Society, the American Society of Regional Anesthesia and Pain
Medicine, and the American Society of Anesthesiologists’ Committee on Regional Anesthesia, Executive
Committee, and Administrative Council. J Pain. 2016;17(2):131-157.
Revision History
Type of Summary of Changes Approval Date
Revision
Annual Step 1 Products: Cataflam and fenoprofen were added to the Step 1 Products. 09/07/2022
Revision Criteria: The criterion regarding a patient currently taking Xarelto (rivaroxaban
tablets) was updated to also include Xarelto oral suspension.
“Cigna Companies” refers to operating subsidiaries of Cigna Corporation. All products and services are provided exclusively by or through
such operating subsidiaries, including Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Evernorth
Behavioral Health, Inc., Cigna Health Management, Inc. and HMO or service company subsidiaries of Cigna Health Corporation. The Cigna
name, logo, and other Cigna marks are owned by Cigna Intellectual Property, Inc. © 2023 Cigna.
Page 4 of 4
Cigna National Formulary Coverage Policy: ST Cycloxygenase-2 Inhibitor – Celebrex