PRIOR AUTHORIZATION POLICY
POLICY: Growth Disorders – Sogroya Prior Authorization Policy
• Sogroya® (somapacitan-beco subcutaneous injection − Novo
Nordisk)
REVIEW DATE: 06/18/2025; selected revision 08/13/2025
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
THE FOLLOWING COVERAGE POLICY APPLIES TO HEALTH BENEFIT PLANS ADMINISTERED BY CIGNA COMPANIES. CERTAIN CIGNA
COMPANIES AND/OR LINES OF BUSINESS ONLY PROVIDE UTILIZATION REVIEW SERVICES TO CLIENTS AND DO NOT MAKE COVERAGE
DETERMINATIONS. REFERENCES TO STANDARD BENEFIT PLAN LANGUAGE AND COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS DO NOT APPLY TO THOSE
CLIENTS. COVERAGE POLICIES ARE INTENDED TO PROVIDE GUIDANCE IN INTERPRETING CERTAIN STANDARD BENEFIT PLANS
ADMINISTERED BY CIGNA COMPANIES. PLEASE NOTE, THE TERMS OF A CUSTOMER'S PARTICULAR BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT [GROUP
SERVICE AGREEMENT, EVIDENCE OF COVERAGE, CERTIFICATE OF COVERAGE, SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION (SPD) OR SIMILAR PLAN
DOCUMENT] MAY DIFFER SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THE STANDARD BENEFIT PLANS UPON WHICH THESE COVERAGE POLICIES ARE BASED. FOR
EXAMPLE, A CUSTOMER'S BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT MAY CONTAIN A SPECIFIC EXCLUSION RELATED TO A TOPIC ADDRESSED IN A COVERAGE
POLICY. IN THE EVENT OF A CONFLICT, A CUSTOMER'S BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT ALWAYS SUPERSEDES THE INFORMATION IN THE
COVERAGE POLICIES. IN THE ABSENCE OF A CONTROLLING FEDERAL OR STATE COVERAGE MANDATE, BENEFITS ARE ULTIMATELY
DETERMINED BY THE TERMS OF THE APPLICABLE BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT. COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS IN EACH SPECIFIC INSTANCE
REQUIRE CONSIDERATION OF 1) THE TERMS OF THE APPLICABLE BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT IN EFFECT ON THE DATE OF SERVICE; 2) ANY
APPLICABLE LAWS/REGULATIONS; 3) ANY RELEVANT COLLATERAL SOURCE MATERIALS INCLUDING COVERAGE POLICIES AND; 4) THE
SPECIFIC FACTS OF THE PARTICULAR SITUATION. EACH COVERAGE REQUEST SHOULD BE REVIEWED ON ITS OWN MERITS. MEDICAL
DIRECTORS ARE EXPECTED TO EXERCISE CLINICAL JUDGMENT WHERE APPROPRIATE AND HAVE DISCRETION IN MAKING INDIVIDUAL
COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS. WHERE COVERAGE FOR CARE OR SERVICES DOES NOT DEPEND ON SPECIFIC CIRCUMSTANCES,
REIMBURSEMENT WILL ONLY BE PROVIDED IF A REQUESTED SERVICE(S) IS SUBMITTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RELEVANT CRITERIA
OUTLINED IN THE APPLICABLE COVERAGE POLICY, INCLUDING COVERED DIAGNOSIS AND/OR PROCEDURE CODE(S). REIMBURSEMENT IS
NOT ALLOWED FOR SERVICES WHEN BILLED FOR CONDITIONS OR DIAGNOSES THAT ARE NOT COVERED UNDER THIS COVERAGE POLICY
(SEE "CODING INFORMATION" BELOW). WHEN BILLING, PROVIDERS MUST USE THE MOST APPROPRIATE CODES AS OF THE EFFECTIVE
DATE OF THE SUBMISSION. CLAIMS SUBMITTED FOR SERVICES THAT ARE NOT ACCOMPANIED BY COVERED CODE(S) UNDER THE APPLICABLE
COVERAGE POLICY WILL BE DENIED AS NOT COVERED. COVERAGE POLICIES RELATE EXCLUSIVELY TO THE ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH
BENEFIT PLANS. COVERAGE POLICIES ARE NOT RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TREATMENT AND SHOULD NEVER BE USED AS TREATMENT
GUIDELINES. IN CERTAIN MARKETS, DELEGATED VENDOR GUIDELINES MAY BE USED TO SUPPORT MEDICAL NECESSITY AND OTHER
COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS.
CIGNA NATIONAL FORMULARY COVERAGE:
OVERVIEW
Sogroya, a long-acting human growth hormone (hGH) analog, is indicated for the
treatment of pediatric patients ≥ 2.5 years of age who have growth failure due to
inadequate secretion of growth hormone (GH).1 Sogroya is also indicated for the
replacement of endogenous GH in adults with GH deficiency (GHD).
Disease Overview
GHD in Children and Adolescents
Sogroya is a hGH analog.1 In children with GHD, somatropin is effective for increasing
final adult height.2 Somatropin therapy is recommended to normalize adult height
and avoid extreme shortness in children and adolescents with GHD.2 In addition to
congenital causes, hypopituitarism may also be caused by radiation therapy;
somatropin may be used to improve final height of children who have undergone
radiation.3,4
Page 1 of 13 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Sogroya Prior Authorization Policy
GHD in Adults or Transition Adolescents
Somatropin is indicated for the replacement of endogenous GH in adults with GH,
which may present in adults or children as GHD.11 Patients with other anterior
pituitary hormone deficiencies are likely to have GHD. In adults, the diagnosis of GHD
usually is made in patients with signs and symptoms of hypothalamic-pituitary
disease (endocrine, structural, and/or genetic causes); those who have received
cranial irradiation or tumor treatment; or those with traumatic brain injury or
subarachnoid hemorrhage.11,12 Onset may be in adulthood or childhood. In
childhood, the goal of somatropin therapy is primarily for statural growth. When final
adult height is attained, somatropin therapy is no longer required for statural growth.
Transition is used to describe the period in adolescence after growth is completed
and the need for continued replacement into adulthood is assessed. Confirmatory GH
stimulation testing may not be required in patients, such as those with
congenital/genetic GHD or multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies. When persistent
GHD is documented after completion of adult height, somatropin therapy should be
continued to attain full skeletal and muscle maturation during the transition period
from childhood to adulthood.11 In adults with GHD, somatropin replacement therapy
improves abnormalities in substrate metabolism, body composition, and physical and
psychosocial function.11,12 GH is not approved by the FDA for the treatment of other
conditions in adults who may have a low GH response to GH provocative testing (such
as obesity, aging, or depression) or to improve athletic performance.3,5
Macrilen (macimorelin oral solution) was the most recently approved test for the
diagnosis of adult GHD. Patients in the pivotal trial were 18 to 66 years of age and
the BMI ranged from 16 to 40 kg/m2.26 Safety and diagnostic performance have not
been established in patients with BMI > 40 kg/m2. Clinical studies established that a
maximally stimulated serum growth hormone level of < 2.8 ng/mL (i.e., at the 30,
45, 60, and 90 minute time points) after Macrilen administration confirms the
presence of adult GHD. Novo Nordisk no longer commercializes Macrilen. As of May
2023, Aeterna Zentaris/Cosciens Biopahrma regained the rights to macimorelin in
the United States and is engaged in business development efforts to secure a new
development and commercialization partner.27
Guidelines
A consensus statement from international experts was recently published (2025)
regarding long-acting GH therapy.28 The authors note that lonapegsomatropin,
somapacitan, and somatrogon have all demonstrated noninferiority to daily
somatropin for efficacy (i.e., annualized height velocity) in pediatric GHD. They also
state that the safety profile of long-acting products is comparable to that of daily
somatropin. It is noted that given the unique pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic
profile and molecular weight of each formulation, the weight-based dosing calculation
is different for each product and direct milligram dose comparisons are not
appropriate. Some guidelines do not specifically address Sogroya. Neither the
Pediatric Endocrine Society guidelines for children and adolescents with GH
deficiency2 (2016) nor the GH Research Society guidelines on children with short
stature15 (2019) recommend a specific GH product for GHD. Both publications note
that newer long-acting GH preparations may reduce the frequency of injections.
13 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Sogroya Prior Authorization Policy
The American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists and the American College of
Endocrinology guidelines for management of GHD in adults and patients transitioning
from pediatric to adult care16 (2019) also do not prefer one GH agent over another.
These guidelines state that when the clinician is suspicious of adult GHD, establishing
a diagnosis is essential before replacement with GH. Adult GHD is associated with
numerous adverse metabolic abnormalities (abdominal obesity, reduced lean body
mass, increased peripheral insulin resistance, impaired cardiac performance) which
may contribute to increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.
POLICY STATEMENT
Prior Authorization is recommended for prescription benefit coverage of Sogroya. All
reviews will be directed to a clinician (i.e., pharmacist or nurse) for verification of
criteria. All approvals are provided for the duration noted below. Because of the
specialized skills required for evaluation and diagnosis of patients treated with
Sogroya as well as monitoring required for adverse events and long-term efficacy,
initial approval requires the medication to be prescribed by or in consultation with a
physician who specializes in the condition being treated. Human growth hormone is
FDA-approved for treatment of a limited number of conditions. The FDA has not
approved the use of human growth hormone as therapy for anti-aging, longevity,
cosmetic or performance enhancement. Federal law prohibits the dispensing of
human growth hormone for non-approved purposes. A pharmacy’s failure to comply
with that law could result in significant criminal penalties to the pharmacy and its
employees. Accordingly, a pharmacy may decline to dispense prescriptions for human
growth hormone when written by a physician or other authorized prescribers who
they believe may be involved in or affiliated with the fields of anti-aging, longevity,
rejuvenation, cosmetic, performance enhancement, or sports medicine.
Documentation: Documentation is required for use of Sogroya as noted in the
criteria as [documentation required]. Documentation may include, but is not
limited to, chart notes, prescription claims records, prescription receipts, and/or other
information. For patient cases in which documentation is required, if this
documentation has been previously received upon a prior coverage review, the
documentation requirement is considered to be met.
• Sogroya® (somapacitan-beco subcutaneous injection - Novo Nordisk)
is(are) covered as medically necessary when the following criteria is(are)
met for FDA-approved indication(s) or other uses with supportive evidence
(if applicable):
FDA-Approved Indications
1. Growth Hormone Deficiency in a Child or Adolescent (≥ 2.5 years of age).
Approve for 1 year if the patient meets ONE the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy with any Growth Hormone Agent. Approve if the patient meets
ONE of the following (i, ii, iii, iv, or v):
i. Patient meets BOTH of the following (a and b):
13 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Sogroya Prior Authorization Policy
a) Patient meets ONE of the following [(1) or (2)]:
(1) Patient has had at least two growth hormone stimulation tests
performed with any of the following agents: levodopa, insulin-
induced hypoglycemia, arginine, clonidine, or glucagon AND the
peak growth hormone response to both tests are < 10 ng/mL; OR
(2) Patient meets BOTH of the following criteria [(a) and (b)]:
(a) Patient has had at least one growth hormone stimulation test
performed with any of the following agents: levodopa, insulin-
induced hypoglycemia, arginine, clonidine, or glucagon AND the
peak growth hormone response to at least one test is < 10
ng/mL; AND
(b) Patient has at least one risk factor for growth hormone
deficiency; AND
Note: Examples of at least one risk factor for growth hormone
deficiency includes: the height for age curve has deviated
downward across two major height percentiles (e.g., from above
the 25th percentile to below the 10th percentile); the child’s
growth rate is less than the expected normal growth rate based
on age and gender; low insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 and/or
IGFBP-3 levels; the child has a very low peak growth hormone
level on provocative testing as defined by the prescribing
physician; the child’s growth velocity is less than the 10th
percentile for age and gender (height velocity percentile is NOT
the same as height-for-age percentile); the patient is status post
craniopharyngioma resection; the patient has optic nerve
hypoplasia; the patient has a growth hormone gene deletion;
AND
b) The medication has been prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist; OR
ii. Patient has undergone brain radiation or tumor resection AND meets BOTH
of the following (a and b):
a) Patient meets at least ONE of the following [(1) or (2)]:
(1) Patient meets BOTH of the following [(i) and (ii)]:
(i) Patient has had at least one growth hormone stimulation test
performed with any of the following agents: levodopa, insulin-
induced hypoglycemia, arginine, clonidine, or glucagon; AND
(ii) The peak growth hormone response to at least one test is < 10
ng/mL; OR
(2) Patient has a deficiency in at least one other pituitary hormone (i.e.,
adrenocorticotropic hormone, thyroid-stimulating hormone,
gonadotropin [luteinizing hormone and/or follicle stimulating
hormone deficiency are counted as one deficiency], or prolactin);
AND
b) The medication has been prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist; OR
iii. Patient has congenital hypopituitarism AND meets BOTH of the following (a
and b):
a) Patient meets at least ONE of the following [(1), (2), or (3)]:
13 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Sogroya Prior Authorization Policy
(1) Patient meets BOTH of the following [(i) and (ii)]:
(i) Patient has had at least one growth hormone stimulation test
performed with any of the following agents: levodopa, insulin-
induced hypoglycemia, arginine, clonidine, or glucagon; AND
(ii) The peak growth hormone response to at least one test is < 10
ng/mL; OR
(2) Patient has a deficiency in at least one other pituitary hormone (i.e.,
adrenocorticotropic hormone, thyroid-stimulating hormone,
gonadotropin [luteinizing hormone and/or follicle stimulating
hormone deficiency are counted as one deficiency], or prolactin);
OR
(3) Patient has the imaging triad of ectopic posterior pituitary and
pituitary hypoplasia with abnormal pituitary stalk; AND
b) The medication has been prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist; OR
iv. Patient has multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies and meets BOTH of the
following (a and b):
Note: Growth hormone deficiency may occur in combination with other
pituitary hormone deficiencies and is referred to as hypopituitarism,
panhypopituitarism, or multiple pituitary hormone deficiency.
a) Patient meets at least ONE of the following [(1) or (2)]:
(1) Patient has three or more of the following pituitary hormone
deficiencies: somatropin (growth hormone), adrenocorticotropic
hormone, thyroid-stimulating hormone, gonadotropin (luteinizing
hormone and/or follicle stimulating hormone deficiency are counted
as one deficiency), and prolactin; OR
(2) Patient meets BOTH of the following [(i) and (ii)]
(i) Patient had one growth hormone stimulation test with any of the
following agents: levodopa, insulin-induced hypoglycemia,
arginine, clonidine, or glucagon; AND
(ii) The peak growth hormone response to at least one test is < 10
ng/mL; AND
b) The medication has been prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist; OR
v. Patient has had a hypophysectomy (surgical removal of pituitary gland);
OR
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Sogroya or is switching to Sogroya from another
Growth Hormone Agent (Patient has been established on either therapy for ≥
10 months). Approve if the patient meets ONE of the following (i, ii, or iii):
i. Patient is < 12 years of age: Patient’s height has increased by ≥ 2 cm/year
in the most recent year; OR
ii. Patient is ≥ 12 years of age and < 18 years of age: Patient meets BOTH
of the following (a and b):
a) Patient’s height has increased by ≥ 2 cm/year in the most recent year;
AND
b) Patient’s epiphyses are open; OR
iii. Patient is ≥ 18 years of age. Patient meets ALL of the following (a, b, and
c):
13 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Sogroya Prior Authorization Policy
a) Patient’s height has increased by ≥ 2 cm/year in the most recent year;
AND
b) Patient’s epiphyses are open; AND
c) Mid-parental height has not been attained.
Note: Mid-parental height is the father’s height plus the mother’s height
divided by 2, plus 2.5 inches if male or minus 2.5 inches if female.
Note: Adolescents and young adults with childhood onset growth
hormone deficiency who have completed linear growth may continue
receiving Sogroya therapy as a transition adolescent or as an adult. See
criteria for Growth Hormone Deficiency in an adult or transition
adolescent.
2. Growth Hormone Deficiency in an Adult or Transition Adolescent. Approve
for 1 year if the patient meets ALL of the following (A, B, C, and D):
A) The endocrinologist must certify that growth hormone therapy is not being
prescribed for anti-aging therapy or to enhance athletic ability or for body
building; AND
B) Patient must have a diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency that is ONE of the
following (i or ii): [documentation required for all elements]
i. Childhood onset; OR
ii. Adult onset that results from one of the following: growth hormone
deficiency alone or multiple hormone deficiencies (hypopituitarism)
resulting from pituitary disease, hypothalamic disease, pituitary surgery,
cranial radiation therapy, tumor treatment, traumatic brain injury, or
subarachnoid hemorrhage; AND
C) Patient meets at least ONE of the following (i, ii, or iii):
i. Patient (adult or transition adolescent) has known perinatal insults OR
congenital or genetic defects; [documentation required] OR
ii. Patient meets ALL of the following (a, b, and c):
a) Patient (adult onset or transition adolescent) has or had three or more
of the following pituitary hormone deficiencies prior to hormone
replacement therapy (if hormone therapy is required):
Adrenocorticotropic hormone, thyroid-stimulation hormone,
gonadotropin deficiency (luteinizing hormone and/or follicle stimulating
hormone deficiency are counted as one deficiency), and prolactin
[documentation required]; AND
b) The age and gender adjusted serum insulin-like growth factor-1 is or
was below the lower limit of the normal reference range for the reporting
laboratory [documentation required], prior to growth hormone
therapy; AND
c) Other causes of low serum insulin-like growth factor-1 have been
excluded (e.g., malnutrition, prolonged fasting, poorly controlled
diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, hepatic insufficiency, oral estrogen
therapy); OR
iii. Patient meets at least ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Adult. Patient has had a negative response to at least ONE of the
following standard growth hormone stimulation tests (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or
6) [documentation required for all elements]:
13 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Sogroya Prior Authorization Policy
Note: If the patient has had a previous trial of an arginine test with a
peak response of ≤ 0.4 mcg/L, this would meet the criteria for a
negative response to a growth hormone stimulation test.
(1) Insulin tolerance test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone levels in
at least a 60 minute timeframe [not including a level at timeframe
zero], with adequate hypoglycemia being achieved) with peak
response ≤ 5.0 mcg/L; OR
(2) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone
levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a level at
timeframe zero]) with peak response ≤ 3.0 mcg/L AND the patient’s
body mass index (BMI) is < 25 kg/m2; OR
(3) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone
levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a level at
timeframe zero]) with a peak response ≤ 3.0 mcg/L AND the
patient’s BMI is ≥ 25 kg/m2 and ≤ 30 kg/m2 with, according to the
prescriber, a high pretest probability of growth hormone deficiency;
OR
(4) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone
levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a level at
timeframe zero]) with a peak response ≤ 1.0 mcg/L AND the
patient’s BMI is ≥ 25 kg/m2 and ≤ 30 kg/m2 with, according to the
prescriber, a low pretest probability of growth hormone deficiency;
OR
(5) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone
levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a level at
timeframe zero]) with peak response ≤ 1.0 mcg/L AND the patient’s
BMI is > 30 kg/m2; OR
(6) Macrilen (macimorelin oral solution) test (obtaining at least 4
growth hormone levels in at least a 90 minute timeframe [not
including a level at timeframe zero]) with peak responses < 2.8
ng/mL (2.8 mcg/L) AND the patient’s BMI is ≤ 40 kg/m2; OR
Note: The following formula can be used to calculate BMI: BMI
equals body weight in kg divided by height meters squared (m2)
[i.e., BMI = kg/m2]
b) Transition adolescent. Patient meets BOTH of the following (1 and 2):
[documentation required for all elements]:
Note: The transition period is the time from late puberty to
establishment of adult muscle and bone composition, and encompasses
attainment of adult height.
Note: If the patient has had a trial of a Macrilen test with a peak
response of < 2.8 ng/mL (mcg/L), this would meet the criteria for a
negative response to a growth hormone stimulation test.
(1) Patient has been off growth hormone therapy for at least 1 month
before retesting with a growth hormone stimulation test; AND
(2) Patient meets at least ONE of the following responses to growth
hormone stimulation testing (i, ii, iii, iv, v or vi):
(i) Insulin tolerance test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone levels
in at least a 60 minute timeframe [not including a level at
13 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Sogroya Prior Authorization Policy
timeframe zero], with adequate hypoglycemia being achieved)
with peak response ≤ 5.0 mcg/L; OR
(ii) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone
levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a level at
timeframe zero]) with peak response ≤ 3.0 mcg/L AND the
patient’s body mass index (BMI) is < 25 kg/m2; OR
(iii) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone
levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a level at
timeframe zero]) with a peak response of ≤ 3.0 mcg/L AND the
patient’s BMI is ≥ 25 kg/m2 and ≤ 30 kg/m2 with, according to
the prescriber, a high pretest probability of growth hormone
deficiency; OR
(iv) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone
levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a level at
timeframe zero]) with a peak response ≤ 1.0 mcg/L AND the
patient’s BMI is ≥ 25 kg/m2 and ≤ 30 kg/m2 with, according to
the prescriber, a low pretest probability of growth hormone
deficiency; OR
(v) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone
levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a level at
timeframe zero]) with peak response ≤ 1.0 mcg/L AND the
patient’s BMI is > 30 kg/m2; OR
(vi) If both the insulin tolerance test AND glucagon stimulation test
are contraindicated, the arginine test can be used (obtaining at
least 3 growth hormone levels in at least 120 minute timeframe
[not including a level at timeframe zero]) with a peak response
≤ 0.4 mcg/L; AND
D) The medication was prescribed by or in consultation with an endocrinologist.
CONDITIONS NOT COVERED
• Sogroya® (somapacitan-beco subcutaneous injection - Novo Nordisk)
is(are) considered not medically necessary for ANY other use(s) including
the following (this list may not be all inclusive; criteria will be updated as
new published data are available):
Note: For some of the following indications, authorization for coverage is not
recommended because this indication is excluded from coverage in a typical
pharmacy benefit.
1. Acute Critical Illness Due to Complications Following Surgery, Multiple
Accidental Trauma, or with Acute Respiratory Failure.1 Sogroya is
contraindicated in acute critical illness after open-heart surgery, abdominal
surgery, multiple accidental trauma, or those with acute respiratory failure
because of the risk of increased mortality.
13 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Sogroya Prior Authorization Policy
2. Aging (i.e., Anti-Aging), to Improve Functional Status in an Elderly
Patient, and Somatopause.13,14,17,18 Somatropin is not FDA-approved for anti-
aging therapy, to improve functional status in elderly patients, or to treat
somatopause. Federal law prohibits the distribution or dispensing of somatropin
for non-FDA approved uses. There are no long-term studies assessing somatropin
efficacy and safety for anti-aging therapy. Short-term therapy with somatropin
may improve some measures of body composition, including increased muscle
mass, reduced total body fat, improved skin elasticity, and reduced rate of bone
demineralization, but somatotropin does not have positive effects on strength,
functional capacity, or metabolism. Somatropin is associated with considerable
adverse effects in non-growth hormone deficient adults (e.g., carpal tunnel
syndrome, soft tissue edema, arthralgias, glucose intolerance, increased serum
lipids). Another concern is the possible increased risk of cancer with long-term
use of somatropin and the potentiating effects of insulin growth factor (IGFs) on
cancer. Somatropin is not indicated for the age-related decrease in growth
hormone/IGF-1 status.12
3. Athletic Ability Enhancement.5 Somatropin is not FDA-approved for athletic
performance enhancement or for body building in nonathletes. Federal law
prohibits the distribution or dispensing of somatropin for non-FDA approved uses.
Short-term administration of somatropin to increase strength and endurance in
athletes is no more effective than training alone and somatropin should not be
administered to athletes or other persons for the purpose of enhancing athletic
ability or improving personal appearance (i.e., to appear leaner and more
muscular). Somatropin has been used in supraphysiologic doses alone or in
combination with other performance enhancing drugs (PEDs) in users who are not
athletes.34 Use of PEDs has been linked to an increased risk of death and many
adverse effects including cardiovascular, psychiatric, metabolic, endocrine,
neurologic, infectious, hepatic, renal, and musculoskeletal disorders.
4. Central Precocious Puberty (CPP). Children with precocious puberty are often
treated with gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists (Lupron®
[leuprolide acetate injection]) to suppress pituitary gonadal activity, to slow the
advancement of bone age (prevent premature fusion of the epiphyseal growth
plates), and to improve adult height. In some patients GnRH agonist therapy may
result in marked deceleration of bone growth and may result in adult height that
is less than the mid-parental height. Small and nonrandomized studies have
demonstrated a significant improvement in final adult height over pre-treated
predicted adult height in patients treated with GnRH agonist and GH as compared
with patients treated with GnRH agonist alone. However, larger randomized
studies are lacking, and routine use of GH in this setting is not recommended.6,7
5. Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. There is no evidence of GHD in chronic fatigue
syndrome.19
6. Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia (CAH).8,9 The Endocrine Society clinical
practice guidelines on CAH due to steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency recommend
against the use of experimental treatment approaches outside of formally
13 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Sogroya Prior Authorization Policy
approved clinical trials.9 Children with predicted adult height standard deviation
≤ -2.25 may be considered for growth-promoting treatments in appropriately
controlled trials.
7. Constitutional Delay of Growth and Puberty. These children have delayed
skeletal maturation and pubertal development. Administering somatropin does
not increase adult height (which is usually normal).10 Short-term androgen
therapy accelerates growth and the rate of pubertal advancement in boys.
8. Fibromyalgia. In one placebo-controlled study, 120 non-GHD adult women with
severe fibromyalgia and low levels of IGF-1 were randomized to somatropin 0.006
mg/kg/day for 12 months (dose was adjusted) or placebo for 6 months.20 Patients
receiving placebo initially were switched to somatropin from Months 6 to 12 (open
label). Standard therapy for fibromyalgia was continued. After 6 months, there
were no differences between somatropin and placebo in the percentage of patients
with fewer than 11 positive tender points, mean number of tender points, intensity
of pain in every point evaluated, and other measures. After 12 months of
somatropin therapy, 53% of patients had less than 11 positive tender points
compared with 33% of patients who received placebo and then somatropin for 6
months (P < 0.05). At 18 months follow-up evaluation when somatropin was
discontinued, impairment in pain perception worsened in both groups but to a
lesser extent in the patients on somatropin for 12 months. Further controlled trials
are needed with a longer duration,21 with different doses, and using the 2010
American College of Rheumatology criteria for fibromyalgia. Some patients with
fibromyalgia may have adult GHD.
9. Infertility. Some trials have demonstrated that GH intervention is associated
with improved in-vitro fertilization (IVF) reproductive outcome, but others have
concluded there is no evidence of an increased chance of a live birth with use of
somatropin. More randomized controlled clinical trials with rigorous methodology
are needed to confirm the beneficial effects of GH on assisted reproductive
technology outcomes.23 A 2025 phase III open-label study showed that empiric
adjuvant GH therapy in GnRH antagonist cycles does not improve IVF stimulation
results or reproductive outcomes, including implantation, miscarriage, and clinical
pregnancy rates.22
10. Obesity.24,25 Somatropin is not indicated for the treatment of obesity. Low
growth hormone levels are a consequence of central obesity and not a cause.
Obesity is associated with decreased basal and pulsatile release of growth
hormone and decreased stimulated growth hormone release. Somatropin therapy
does not have significant beneficial effects on obesity in persons without GHD
and does not produce significant overall weight loss. Supraphysiologic doses of
somatropin have been used to treat obesity. Effects of long-term therapy with
somatropin are unknown.
11. Osteoporosis.13,14 Guidelines for treatment or prevention of osteoporosis do not
include recommendations for use of somatropin. In one double-blind trial, 80
postmenopausal women with osteoporosis (56% of patients [n = 45/80] had a
13 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Sogroya Prior Authorization Policy
history of fractures) were randomized to somatropin 0.33 mg/day or 0.83
mg/day or to placebo for 3 years.13 The double-blind phase was 18 months and
patients on somatropin continued drug for another 18 months and patients on
placebo stopped at 18 months. Patients were compared with an age-matched
random population sample of women (n = 120). All patients received calcium
750 mg, vitamin D 400 units, and hormone replacement therapy. All women were
followed for 10 years total. Bone mineral density increased in the patients
receiving somatropin at Years 4 and 5, and after 10 years, had decreased to
similar levels as before treatment. At 10 years, 28% of women (n = 22/80) had
fractures. In the control group, fractures increased from 8% of patients at
baseline to 32% of patients after 10 years. At 10 years, 41% of patients (n =
33/80) had stopped hormone replacement therapy; 23% had started
bisphosphonates due to fractures, and 3% had received Forteo® (teriparatide
injection). Larger studies are needed to determine the effects of somatropin
therapy on bone mineral density and fractures in non-growth hormone deficient
persons.
REFERENCES
1. Sogroya® subcutaneous injection [prescribing information]. Plainsboro, NJ: Novo Nordisk; February
2025.
2. Grimberg A, DiVall SA, Polychronakos C, et al; Drug and Therapeutics Committee and Ethics
Committee of the Pediatric Endocrine Society. Guidelines for growth hormone and insulin-like growth
factor-I treatment in children and adolescents: growth hormone deficiency, idiopathic short stature,
and primary insulin-like growth factor-I deficiency. Horm Res Paediatr. 2016;86(6):361-397.
3. Melmed S. Idiopathic adult growth hormone deficiency. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2013;98:2187-
2197.
4. Isfan F, Kanold J, Merlin E, et al. Growth hormone treatment impact on growth rate and final height
of patients who received HSCT with TBI or/and cranial irradiation in childhood: a report from the
French Leukaemia Long-Term Follow-Up Study (LEA). Bone Marrow Transplant. 2012;47:684-693.
5. Clemmons DR, Molitch M, Hoffman AR, et al. Growth hormone should be used only for approved
indications. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014;99:409-411.
6. Chen M, Eugster EA. Central Precocious Puberty: Update on diagnosis and treatment. Paediatr
Drugs. 2015;17(4)272-81.
7. Shi Y, Ma Z, Yang X, et al. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogue and recombinant human
growth hormone treatment for idiopathic central precocious puberty in girls. Front Endocrinol. 2023;
13:1085385.
8. Lin-Su K, Harbison MD, Lekarev O, et al. Final adult height in children with congenital adrenal
hyperplasia treated with growth hormone. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2011;96:1710-1717.
9. Speiser PW, Arlt W, Auchus RJ, et al. Congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to steroid 21-hydroxylase
deficiency: An Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab.
2018:103(11):4043-4088.
10. De Luca F, Argente J, Cavallo L, et al; International Workshop on Management of Puberty for
Optimum Auxological Results. Management of puberty in constitutional delay of growth and puberty.
Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2001;14 Suppl 2:953-957.
11. Molitch ME, Clemmons DR, Malozowski S, et al; Endocrine Society. Evaluation and treatment of adult
growth hormone deficiency: an Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab.
2011;96:1587-1609.
12. Ho KK; 2007 GH Deficiency Consensus Workshop Participants. Consensus guidelines for the
diagnosis and treatment of adults with GH deficiency II: a statement of the GH Research Society in
association with the European Society for Pediatric Endocrinology, Lawson Wilkins Society, European
Society of Endocrinology, Japan Endocrine Society, and Endocrine Society of Australia. Eur J
Endocrinol. 2007;157:695-700.
13 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Sogroya Prior Authorization Policy
13. Krantz E, Trimpou P, Landin-Wilhelmsen K. Effect of growth hormone treatment on fractures and
quality of life in postmenopausal osteoporosis: A 10-Year follow-up study. J Clin Endocrinol Metab.
2015;100:3251-3259.
14. Gillberg P, Mallmin H, Petren-Mallmin M, et al. Two years of treatment with recombinant human
growth hormone increases bone mineral density in men with idiopathic osteoporosis. J Clin
Endocrinol Metab. 2002;87:4900-4906.
15. Collett-Solberg PF, Ambler G, Backelijaw PF, et al. Diagnosis, genetics, and therapy of short stature
in children: A growth hormone research society international perspective. Horm Res Paediatr.
2019;92(1):1-14.
16. Yuen K, Biller B, Radovick S, et al. American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists and American
College of Endocrinology guidelines for management of growth hormone deficiency in adults and
patients transitioning from pediatric to adult care. Endocr Pract. 2019;25(11):1191-1232.
17. Vance ML. Can growth hormone prevent aging? N Engl J Med. 2003;348:779-780.
18. Liu H, Bravata DM, Olkin I, et al. Systematic review: the safety and efficacy of growth hormone in
the healthy elderly. Ann Intern Med. 2007;146:104-115.
19. Cleare AJ, Sookdeo SS, Jones J, et al. Integrity of the growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor
system is maintained in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome. J Clin Endocrinol Metab.
2000;85:1433-1439.
20. Cuatrecasas G, Alegre C, Fernandez-Solà J, et al. Growth hormone treatment for sustained pain
reduction and improvement in quality of life in severe fibromyalgia. Pain. 2012;153:1382-1389.
21. Geenen R, Jacobs JW, Bijlsma JW. Evaluation and management of endocrine dysfunction in
fibromyalgia. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 2002;28:389-404.
22. Mourad A, Jamal W, Hemmings R, et al. Empirical use of growth hormone in IVF is useless: the
largest randomized controlled trial. Hum Reprod. 2025;40(1):77-84.
23. Chang CW, Sung YW, Hsueh YW, et al. Growth hormone in fertility and infertility: Mechanism of
action and clinical applications. 2022;13:1040503.
24. Shadid S, Jensen MD. Effects of growth hormone administration in human obesity. Obes Res.
2003;11:170-175.
25. Mekala KC, Tritos NA. Effects of recombinant human growth hormone therapy in obesity in adults:
a meta-analysis. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2009;94:130-137.
26. Macrilen™ oral solution [prescribing information]. Plainsboro, NJ: Novo Nordisk; July 2021.
27. Cosciens BioPharma. Product Publicationns 2024. Available at: Our Product | COSCIENS BIO.
Accessed on June 12, 2025.
28. Maniatis A, Cutfield W, Dattani M, et al. Long-acting growth hormone therapy in pediatric growth
hormone deficiency: A consensus statement. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2025;110(4):e1232-e1240.
HISTORY
Type of Summary of Changes Review
Revision Date
New Policy -- 05/31/2023
Selected Growth Hormone Deficiency in a Child or Adolescent (≥ 2.5 11/01/2023
Revision years of age): Criterion that specified the result of a growth
hormone stimulation test to be < 10 ng/mL was added. Criterion that
the stimulation test shows an inadequate response as defined by a
peak response below the normal reference range as determined by
the testing laboratory was removed.
Annual No criteria changes. 06/12/2024
Revision
Annual Growth Hormone Deficiency in a Child or Adolescent (≥ 2.5 06/18/2025
Revision years of age): The wording “at least” was added to the requirement
for two growth hormone stimulation tests ˂ 10 ng/mL. Updated the
wording “Patient has been evaluated by an endocrinologist” to “The
medication has been prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist.”
Growth Hormone Deficiency in Adult or Transition Adolescent:
The criterion “Patient (adult onset or transition adolescent) has three
or more of the following pituitary hormone deficiencies:.” was updated
13 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Sogroya Prior Authorization Policy
to “Patient (adult onset or transition adolescent) has or had three or
more of the following pituitary hormone deficiencies prior to hormone
replacement therapy (if hormone therapy if required).” The criterion
“The age and gender adjusted serum insulin-like growth factor-1 is
below the lower limit of the normal reference range for the reporting
laboratory” was updated to “The age and gender adjusted serum
insulin-like growth factor-1 is or was below the lower limit of the
normal reference range for the reporting laboratory (…), prior to
growth hormone therapy”. Also updated the wording “Patient has been
evaluated by an endocrinologist” to “The medication has been
prescribed by or in consultation with an endocrinologist.”
Selected The following statement in the Policy Statement was updated to 08/13/2025
Revision include a clinician nurse: “All reviews will be directed to a clinician
(i.e., pharmacist or nurse) for verification of criteria.”
"Cigna Companies" refers to operating subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. All products and services are
provided exclusively by or through such operating subsidiaries, including Cigna Health and Life Insurance
Company, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Evernorth Behavioral Health, Inc., Cigna Health
Management, Inc., and HMO or service company subsidiaries of The Cigna Group.© 2025 The Cigna
Group.
13 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Sogroya Prior Authorization Policy