POLICY: Brand Name Products with
Bioequivalent Generics
REVIEW DATE: 09/08/2025
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
The following Coverage Policy applies to health benefit plans administered by Cigna
Companies. Certain Cigna Companies and/or lines of business only provide utilization review
services to clients and do not make coverage determinations. References to standard
benefit plan language and coverage determinations do not apply to those clients. Coverage
Policies are intended to provide guidance in interpreting certain standard benefit plans
administered by Cigna Companies. Please note, the terms of a customer’s particular benefit
plan document [Group Service Agreement, Evidence of Coverage, Certificate of Coverage,
Summary Plan Description (SPD) or similar plan document] may differ significantly from the
standard benefit plans upon which these Coverage Policies are based. For example, a
customer’s benefit plan document may contain a specific exclusion related to a topic
addressed in a Coverage Policy. In the event of a conflict, a customer’s benefit plan
document always supersedes the information in the Coverage Policies. In the absence of a
controlling federal or state coverage mandate, benefits are ultimately determined by the
terms of the applicable benefit plan document. Coverage determinations in each specific
instance require consideration of 1) the terms of the applicable benefit plan document in
effect on the date of service; 2) any applicable laws/regulations; 3) any relevant collateral
source materials including Coverage Policies and; 4) the specific facts of the particular
situation. Each coverage request should be reviewed on its own merits. Medical directors
are expected to exercise clinical judgment where appropriate and have discretion in making
individual coverage determinations. Where coverage for care or services does not depend
on specific circumstances, reimbursement will only be provided if a requested service(s) is
submitted in accordance with the relevant criteria outlined in the applicable Coverage Policy,
including covered diagnosis and/or procedure code(s). Reimbursement is not allowed for
services when billed for conditions or diagnoses that are not covered under this Coverage
Policy (see “Coding Information” below). When billing, providers must use the most
appropriate codes as of the effective date of the submission. Claims submitted for services
that are not accompanied by covered code(s) under the applicable Coverage Policy will be
denied as not covered. Coverage Policies relate exclusively to the administration of health
benefit plans. Coverage Policies are not recommendations for treatment and should never
be used as treatment guidelines. In certain markets, delegated vendor guidelines may be
used to support medical necessity and other coverage determinations.
CIGNA NATIONAL FORMULARY COVERAGE POLICY:
The Cigna National Formulary prescription drug list does not cover certain Brand
Name Products with Bioequivalent Generics unless those products are approved
based upon a medical necessity review.
Page 1 of 2 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Brand Name Products with Bioequivalent Generics
Cigna covers these products as medically necessary when the Product
Specific Exception Criteria are met. Refer to the Non-Preferred Drug
Coverage Review - (Formulary Exception Criteria) List document for an up-
to-date list of non-covered products (alphabetical by Brand Name) and their
exception criteria.
Any other exception is considered not medically necessary.
Approval duration is 12 months unless otherwise noted.
Documentation: When documentation is required, the prescriber must provide
written documentation supporting the trials of these other agents, noted in the
criteria as [documentation required]. Documentation may include, but is not
limited to, chart notes, prescription claims records, and/or prescription receipts.
Criteria will be updated as new published data are available.
“Cigna Companies” refers to operating subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. All products and services are provided
exclusively by or through such operating subsidiaries, including Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company,
Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Evernorth Behavioral Health, Inc., Cigna Health Management, Inc.,
and HMO or service company subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. © 2025 The Cigna Group.
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage Policy:Brand Name Products with Bioequivalent Generics