PRIOR AUTHORIZATION POLICY
POLICY: Amyloidosis – Tegsedi Prior Authorization Policy
• Tegsedi® (inotersen subcutaneous injection – Ionis/Akcea
Therapeutics)
REVIEW DATE: 12/04/2024
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
The following Coverage Policy applies to health benefit plans administered by Cigna Companies. Certain Cigna
Companies and/or lines of business only provide utilization review services to clients and do not make coverage
determinations. References to standard benefit plan language and coverage determinations do not apply to those
clients. Coverage Policies are intended to provide guidance in interpreting certain standard benefit plans administered
by Cigna Companies. Please note, the terms of a customer's particular benefit plan document [Group Service
Agreement, Evidence of Coverage, Certificate of Coverage, Summary Plan Description (SPD) or similar plan
document] may differ significantly from the standard benefit plans upon which these Coverage Policies are based.
For example, a customer's benefit plan document may contain a specific exclusion related to a topic addressed in a
Coverage Policy. In the event of a conflict, a customer's benefit plan document always supersedes the information in
the Coverage Policies. In the absence of a controlling federal or state coverage mandate, benefits are ultimately
determined by the terms of the applicable benefit plan document. Coverage determinations in each specific instance
require consideration of 1) the terms of the applicable benefit plan document in effect on the date of service; 2) any
applicable laws/regulations; 3) any relevant collateral source materials including Coverage Policies and; 4) the
specific facts of the particular situation. Each coverage request should be reviewed on its own merits. Medical
directors are expected to exercise clinical judgment and have discretion in making individual coverage
determinations. Coverage Policies relate exclusively to the administration of health benefit plans. Coverage Policies
are not recommendations for treatment and should never be used as treatment guidelines. In certain markets,
delegated vendor guidelines may be used to support medical necessity and other coverage determinations.
Cigna National Formulary Coverage:
Overview
Tegsedi, an antisense oligonucleotide, is indicated for treatment of adults with
polyneuropathy of hereditary transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis (hATTR).1
Tegsedi has not been studied in patients with a history of liver transplantation. hATTR
is a progressive disease caused by mutations in the transthyretin (TTR) gene leading
to multisystem organ dysfunction.2 Common neurologic manifestations include
sensiomotor polyneuropathy, autonomic neuropathy, small-fiber polyneuropathy,
and carpal tunnel syndrome.
Guidelines
A scientific statement from the American Heart Association (AHA) on the treatment
of cardiomyopathy of hATTR (July 2020) includes recommendations related to
polyneuropathy.3 Canadian guidelines for the treatment of patients with
polyneuropathy (February 2021) and recommendations from the European Society
of Cardiology (ESC) [2021] include treatment recommendations for hATTR
polyneuropathy as well.2,4 The American College of Cardiology (ACC) expert
consensus decision pathway on comprehensive multidisciplinary care for patients
Page 1 of 4 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Amyloidosis – Tegsedi Prior Authorization Policy
with cardiac amyloidosis (2023) mention Tegsedi for polyneuropathy of hATTR.5 In
general, Onpattro and Tegsedi are recommended for patients with hATTR
polyneuropathy.
For patients with hATTR with polyneuropathy, the AHA recommends treatment with
Onpattro or Tegsedi.3 For patients with hATTR with polyneuropathy and
cardiomyopathy, Onpattro, Tegsedi, or Vyndamax/Vyndaqel are recommended. Use
of combination therapy is discussed; however, it is noted that there is little data to
support combination therapy.
The Canadian guidelines recommend Onpattro and Tegsedi as first-line treatment to
stop the progression of neuropathy and improve polyneuropathy in early and late
stage hATTR with polyneuropathy.2
The ESC Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic heart failure
note that TTR stabilization and reduction are the recommended basis of treatment
for cardiomyopathy of hATTR.4 Onpattro and Tegsedi may be considered for patients
with hATTR polyneuropathy and cardiomyopathy.
Safety
Tegsedi has a Boxed Warning regarding sudden and unpredictable thrombocytopenia
which may be life-threatening.1 It is contraindicated in patients with a platelet count
less than 100 x 109/L. Based on monitoring, Tegsedi may need to be interrupted or
discontinued. Following discontinuation, continue to monitor platelet counts for 8
weeks (or longer if platelet count is less than 100 x 109/L). Tegsedi also has a Boxed
Warning regarding glomerulonephritis, which may require immunosuppressive
treatment and may lead to dialysis-dependent renal failure. Due to the risks and
frequent monitoring for both serious bleeding caused by severe thrombocytopenia
and because of glomerulonephritis, Tegsedi is only available through a restricted
distribution program under the Tegsedi REMS (Risk Evaluation and Mitigation
Strategy).
POLICY STATEMENT
Prior Authorization is recommended for prescription benefit coverage of Tegsedi. All
approvals are provided for the duration noted below. Because of the specialized skills
required for evaluation and diagnosis of patients treated with Tegsedi as well as the
monitoring required for adverse events and long-term efficacy, approval requires
Tegsedi to be prescribed by or in consultation with a physician who specializes in the
condition being treated.
• Tegsedi® (inotersen subcutaneous injection – Ionis/Akcea
Therapeutics)
is(are) covered as medically necessary when the following criteria is(are)
met for FDA-approved indication(s) or other uses with supportive evidence
(if applicable):
4 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Amyloidosis – Tegsedi Prior Authorization Policy
FDA-Approved Indication
1. Polyneuropathy of Hereditary Transthyretin–Mediated Amyloidosis
(hATTR). Approve for 1 year if the patient meets ALL of the following (A, B, C,
D, and E):
A) Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND
B) Patient has a transthyretin pathogenic variant as confirmed by genetic testing;
AND
C) Patient has symptomatic polyneuropathy; AND
Note: Examples of polyneuropathy include reduced motor
strength/coordination, and impaired sensation (e.g., pain, temperature,
vibration, touch). Examples of assessments for symptomatic disease include
history and clinical exam, electromyography, or nerve conduction velocity
testing.
D) Patient does not have a history of liver transplantation; AND
E) The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a neurologist,
geneticist, or a physician who specializes in the treatment of amyloidosis.
CONDITIONS NOT COVERED
• Tegsedi® (inotersen subcutaneous injection – Ionis/Akcea
Therapeutics)
is(are) considered experimental, investigational or unproven for ANY other
use(s) including the following (this list may not be all inclusive; criteria will
be updated as new published data are available):
1. Concurrent use with other medications indicated for the treatment of
polyneuropathy of hereditary transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis or
transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis-cardiomyopathy (e.g., Amvuttra
[vutrisiran subcutaneous injection], Attruby [acoramidis tablets],
Onpattro [patisiran lipid complex intravenous infusion], Wainua
[eplontersen subcutaneous injection], or a tafamidis product).
The requested medication should not be administered in combination with other
medications indicated for polyneuropathy of hereditary transthyretin-mediated
amyloidosis or transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis-cardiomyopathy. Combination
therapy is generally not recommended due to a lack of controlled clinical trial data
supporting additive efficacy.
REFERENCES
1. Tegsedi® injection [prescribing information]. Carlsbad, CA: Ionis/Akcea Therapeutics; January
2024.
2. Alcantara M, Mezi MM, Baker SK, et al. Canadian guidelines for hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis
polyneuropathy management. Can J Nero Sci. 2022;49:7-18.
3. Kittleson MM, Maurer MS, Ambardekar AV, et al; on behalf of the American Heart Association Heart
Failure and Transplantation Committee of the Council on Clinical Cardiology. AHA scientific
4 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Amyloidosis – Tegsedi Prior Authorization Policy
statement: cardiac amyloidosis: evolving diagnosis and management. Circulation. 2020;142:e7-
e22.
4. McDonagh TA, Metra M, Adamo M, et al. 2021 ESC guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of
acute and chronic heart failure. Eur Heart J. 2021;42:3599-3726.
5. Kittleson M, Ruberg FL, Ambardekar AV, et al. A report of the American College of Cardiology
Solution Set Oversight Committee. 2023 ACC expert consensus decision pathway on
comprehensive multidisciplinary care for the patient with cardiac amyloidosis. JACC.
2023;81(11):1076-1126.
HISTORY
Type of Summary of Changes Review
Revision Date
Annual No criteria changes. 11/29/2023
Revision
Selected Conditions Not Covered 01/03/2024
Revision Concomitant Use With Amvuttra (vutrisiran subcutaneous
injection), Onpattro (patisiran lipid complex intravenous
infusion), Wainua (eplontersen subcutaneous injection), or a
Tafamidis Product. Wainua was added to this condition not
recommended for approval.
Annual Polyneuropathy of Hereditary Transthyretin-Mediated 12/04/2024
Revision Amyloidosis (hATTR): For diagnosis confirmed by genetic testing,
rephrased the term “mutation” to “pathogenic variant.”
Conditions Not Covered: Concurrent use with other medications
indicated for the treatment of polyneuropathy of hereditary
transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis or transthyretin-mediated
amyloidosis-cardiomyopathy (e.g., Amvuttra (vutrisiran
subcutaneous injection), Attruby (acoramidis tablets), Onpattro
(patisiran lipid complex intravenous infusion), Wainua (eplontersen
subcutaneous injection), or a Tafamidis Product.) was changed to as
listed (previously, concomitant use with Amvuttra [vutrisiran
subcutaneous injection], Onpattro [patisiran lipid complex
intravenous infusion], Wainua [eplontersen subcutaneous injection],
or a Tafamidis product was listed).
"Cigna Companies" refers to operating subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. All products and services are
provided exclusively by or through such operating subsidiaries, including Cigna Health and Life Insurance
Company, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Evernorth Behavioral Health, Inc., Cigna Health
Management, Inc., and HMO or service company subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. © 2024 The Cigna
Group.
4 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Amyloidosis – Tegsedi Prior Authorization Policy