STEP THERAPY POLICY
POLICY: Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Step Therapy Policy
REVIEW DATE: 01/22/2025; selected revision 03/05/2025
Note: This list is not all-inclusive.
NSAID Product Manufacturer
Diclofenac diclofenac potassium immediate-release tablets Generic only
diclofenac sodium delayed-release tablets Generic only
Lofena™ tablets Carwin, generic
diclofenac extended-release tablets Generic only
Zorvolex® capsules Iroko, authorized generic
(35 mg only)
Zipsor® capsules Assertio, generic
Cambia® powder for oral solution Assertio, generic
Arthrotec® (diclofenac and misoprostol tablets) Pfizer, generic
diclofenac 1.5% solution Generic only
Flector® (diclofenac epolamine 1.3% topical patch) Institut Biochimique,
generic
Licart™ (diclofenac epolamine 1.3% topical system) Institut Biochimique
Pennsaid® (diclofenac sodium 2% topical solution) Horizon, generic
diclofenac sodium 1% topical gel [OTC Voltaren Generic only
topical gel available]
Etodolac Lodine® tablets Sallus, generic
etodolac capsules Generic only
etodolac extended-release tablets Generic only
Fenoprofen Nalfon® capsules and tablets Xspire, generic to tablets
only
Fenoprofen capsules (brand) Various
Fenopron™ capsules Galt
Flurbiprofen flurbiprofen tablets Generic only
Ibuprofen ibuprofen capsules, tablets, and oral suspension Generic only
[OTC capsules, tablets, chewable tablets, oral
suspension available]
Duexis® (ibuprofen and famotidine tablets) Horizon, generic
Indomethacin indomethacin capsules and extended-release Generic only
capsules
Indocin® oral suspension Iroko, generic
Tivorbex® capsules [obsolete 2/14/2024] Iroko, generic
Ketoprofen ketoprofen capsules and extended-release capsules Generic only
Ketorolac ketorolac tablets Generic only
Sprix® (ketorolac nasal spray) Egalet, generic
Meclofenamate meclofenamate capsules Generic only
Mefenamic acid mefenamic acid capsules Generic only
Meloxicam meloxicam tablets Generic only
Vivlodex™ capsules Iroko, generic
meloxicam oral suspension Generic only
Nabumetone Relafen® DS tablets Carwin
Naproxen Naprosyn® tablets and oral suspension [OTC Canton, generic
tablets available]
EC-Naprosyn® delayed-release tablets Canton, generic
Anaprox DS® controlled-release tablets Canton, generic
Page 1 of 8 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Step Therapy
Policy
Naprelan® controlled-release tablets Almatica, generic
Vimovo® (naproxen and esomeprazole delayed- Horizon, generic
release tablets)
Oxaprozin Daypro® tablets Pfizer, generic
Coxanto® capsules Solubiomix
Piroxicam Feldene® capsules Pfizer, generic
Sulindac sulindac tablets Generic only
Tolmetin tolmetin capsules Generic only
NSAID – Nonsterioidal anti-inflammatory drug; OTC – Over-the-counter.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
The following Coverage Policy applies to health benefit plans administered by Cigna Companies. Certain Cigna
Companies and/or lines of business only provide utilization review services to clients and do not make coverage
determinations. References to standard benefit plan language and coverage determinations do not apply to those
clients. Coverage Policies are intended to provide guidance in interpreting certain standard benefit plans administered
by Cigna Companies. Please note, the terms of a customer's particular benefit plan document [Group Service
Agreement, Evidence of Coverage, Certificate of Coverage, Summary Plan Description (SPD) or similar plan
document] may differ significantly from the standard benefit plans upon which these Coverage Policies are based.
For example, a customer's benefit plan document may contain a specific exclusion related to a topic addressed in a
Coverage Policy. In the event of a conflict, a customer's benefit plan document always supersedes the information in
the Coverage Policies. In the absence of a controlling federal or state coverage mandate, benefits are ultimately
determined by the terms of the applicable benefit plan document. Coverage determinations in each specific instance
require consideration of 1) the terms of the applicable benefit plan document in effect on the date of service; 2) any
applicable laws/regulations; 3) any relevant collateral source materials including Coverage Policies and; 4) the
specific facts of the particular situation. Each coverage request should be reviewed on its own merits. Medical
directors are expected to exercise clinical judgment and have discretion in making individual coverage
determinations. Coverage Policies relate exclusively to the administration of health benefit plans. Coverage Policies
are not recommendations for treatment and should never be used as treatment guidelines. In certain markets,
delegated vendor guidelines may be used to support medical necessity and other coverage determinations.
Cigna National Formulary Coverage:
OVERVIEW
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are indicated primarily for the
treatment of acute and chronic conditions that require an agent with analgesic and
anti-inflammatory activity, although other uses exist.1 For example, Cambia®
(diclofenac potassium oral solution) is the only NSAID indicated for the acute
treatment of migraine attacks with or without aura in adults ≥ 18 years of age2;
however, other NSAIDs are also supported in clinical practice guidelines.3
Overall, it appears that NSAID products have similar clinical efficacy when given at
equipotent doses for the management of acute pain and other pain-related
conditions; however, individual responses to NSAIDs may vary among patients for
reasons that are not well understood. No one product can be distinguished from
another on a consistent basis. All of the products have Boxed Warnings outlining
cardiovascular (CV) and gastrointestinal (GI) risks.1
Guidelines and Recommendations
The American College of Rheumatology (ACR)/Arthritis Foundation hand,
hip, and knee osteoarthritis (OA) guidelines (2019) strongly recommend
topical NSAIDs for knee OA and conditionally recommend topical NSAIDs for hand
OA.4 Topical NSAIDs are not expected to be efficacious in hip OA due to the depth
of the affected joint. Oral NSAIDs are strongly recommended for patients with
hand, hip, and/or knee OA and are recommended over all other oral therapies.
8 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Step Therapy Policy
These agents are the mainstay of pharmacological management of OA. Safe use of
NSAIDs is recommended, including utilization of the lowest possible doses for the
shortest period of time. The relative merits of different oral NSAIDs were
considered outside the scope of the guideline review.
The European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) hand OA guidelines
(2018) state that optimal management of hand OA generally requires a
multidisciplinary approach, including non-pharmacological therapies and
pharmacological therapies.5 The guidelines specifically recommend topical
treatments as preferred over oral therapies because of safety reasons. Topical
NSAIDs are the first pharmacological topical treatment of choice for hand OA. The
guidelines cite pooled safety data comparing topical diclofenac gel with placebo,
which showed similar low rates of adverse events (AEs) in subgroups of low-risk
versus high-risk patients (≥ 65 years of age with comorbid hypertension, type 2
diabetes or cerebrovascular and/or CV disease). The guidelines additionally note
that when a large number of joints are affected, oral pharmacological treatment
may be preferred.
OA Research Society International (OARSI) guidelines for non-surgical
management of knee, hip, and polyarticular OA (2019) comment on oral and
topical NSAID use in a variety of settings.6 For knee OA, topical NSAIDs are
strongly recommended (Level 1A) for patients without comorbidities, as well as for
patients with GI or CV comorbidities. For patients with GI comorbidities, selective
cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors and nonselective oral NSAIDs, in combination
with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI), were conditionally recommended due to their
benefits on pain and functional outcomes. Topical and oral NSAIDs are both
conditionally recommended in the setting of widespread pain; it is noted that for
topical NSAIDs, the number of joints being treated should be monitored due to
potential risk of exceeding recommended doses. Oral NSAIDs, but not topical
NSAIDs, are conditionally recommended in the setting of hip OA.
Beers Criteria
In 2023, the American Geriatrics Society updated Beers Criteria for potentially
inappropriate medication use in older adults.7 The Beers Criteria acknowledge that
many nonselective NSAIDs increase the risk of GI bleeding or peptic ulcer disease
in high-risk groups, which include patients > 75 years of age or taking oral or
parenteral corticosteroids, anticoagulants, or antiplatelet agents. It is noted that
use of a PPI or misoprostol reduces but does not eliminate the risks. Indomethacin
and ketorolac (including the parenteral formulation) should be avoided due to the
increased risk of GI bleeding/peptic ulcer disease and acute kidney injury in older
adults. Indomethacin is more likely to cause central nervous system AEs and
appears to have the most AEs among the NSAIDs. NSAIDs and COX-2 inhibitors
should be avoided in patients with symptomatic heart failure due to the potential to
promote fluid retention and/or exacerbate heart failure. In patients with kidney or
urinary tract disease (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min) it is noted that NSAIDs
(non-COX and COX selective, oral and parenteral, nonacetylate salicylates) may
increase the risk of acute kidney injury and further decline in renal function. It is
recommended to avoid these agents.
8 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Step Therapy Policy
POLICY STATEMENT
This program has been developed to encourage the use of two Step 1a Products
prior to the use of a Step 2a Product. Of note, naproxen/esomeprazole delayed-
release tablets (Vimovo, generic) and ibuprofen/famotidine tablets (Duexis,
generic) are not included in Step 2a. A trial of one prescription naproxen product
(Step 1b) and one prescription proton pump inhibitor (PPI) [Step 1b] is required
prior to the use of naproxen/esomeprazole delayed-release tablets (Vimovo,
generic) [Step 2b]. A trial of one prescription oral ibuprofen product (Step 1c) and
one prescription oral histamine -receptor antagonist (H RA) [Step 1c] is required
2 2
prior to the use of ibuprofen/famotidine tablets (Duexis, generic) [Step 2c]. If the
Step Therapy rule is not met for a Step 2 Product (a, b, or c) at the point of service,
coverage will be determined by the Step Therapy criteria below. All approvals are
provided for 1 year in duration.
Step 1a/2a
Step 1a NSAIDs:
• diclofenac • diclofenac sodium • ketorolac tablets
potassium 50 mg topical solution • meclofenamate
tablets 1.5%* • mefenamic acid
• diclofenac sodium • etodolac (IR and • meloxicam tablets
(IR and ER) ER) • nabumetone
• diclofenac sodium • flurbiprofen • naproxen**
and misoprostol • ibuprofen • oxaprozin
• diclofenac sodium • indomethacin (IR • piroxicam
1% topical gel* and ER) • sulindac
• ketoprofen IR 50 • tolmetin 200 mg
mg and 75 mg
Step 2a NSAIDs:
• Anaprox DS epolamine 1.3% • meloxicam oral
• Arthrotec patch* suspension
• Cambia, diclofenac • Indocin, • Nalfon
potassium powder indomethacin oral • Naprelan and
packet suspension generics
• Coxanto • ketoprofen ER 200 • Naprosyn (brand)
• Daypro mg • EC-Naprosyn ,
• diclofenac sodium • ketoprofen IR 25 naproxen DR 500
2% topical solution* mg mg tablets
• Feldene • Licart* • naproxen oral
• Fenopron • Lodine suspension
• Fenoprofen (brand) • Lofena, diclofenac • Pennsaid 2%*
• fenoprofen 600 mg potassium 25 mg • Relafen DS
tablets tablets • Sprix, ketorolac
• Flector patch, • meloxicam capsules nasal spray
diclofenac
8 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Step Therapy Policy
• Tivorbex, • Vivlodex • Zorvolex, diclofenac
indomethacin 20 mg • Zipsor, diclofenac 35 mg capsule
capsule potassium 25 mg
• tolmetin 400 mg, capsules
600 mg
IR – Immediate-release; ER – Extended-release; DR – Delayed-release.
* Denotes topical product
** Some generic naproxen products are Step 2a
Step 1b/2b
Step 1b (brand or generic):
• Prescription naproxen sodium
• Prescription naproxen
AND
• Prescription dexlansoprazole • Prescription omeprazole
• Prescription esomeprazole magnesium
magnesium • Prescription omeprazole/sodium
• Prescription esomeprazole bicarbonate
strontium • Prescription pantoprazole (oral)
• Prescription lansoprazole • Prescription rabeprazole
• Prescription omeprazole
Step 2b NSAID:
• Vimovo
• naproxen/esomeprazole delayed-release tablets
Step 1c/2c
Step 1c (brand or generic):
• Prescription ibuprofen (oral)
AND
• Prescription cimetidine (oral) • Prescription nizatidine (oral)
• Prescription famotidine (oral) • Prescription ranitidine (oral)
Step 2c NSAID:
• Duexis
• ibuprofen/famotidine tablets
8 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Step Therapy Policy
Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Step Therapy Policy product(s)
is(are) covered as medically necessary when the following step therapy
criteria is(are) met. Any other exception is considered not medically
necessary.
CRITERIA
Step 2a NSAIDs
1. If the patient has tried two different Step 1a prescription-strength NSAIDs for
the current condition, approve a Step 2a NSAID.
Note: Celecoxib is accepted as a generic NSAID. Also, over-the-counter (OTC)
NSAIDs count as alternatives if the patient used prescription-strength doses.
2. If the patient has tried ibuprofen suspension, approve naproxen suspension,
meloxicam suspension, or Indocin (indomethacin) suspension.
Note: OTC ibuprofen suspension would count as an alternative.
3. If the patient has tried generic diclofenac sodium topical solution 1.5% OR
diclofenac sodium 1% topical gel and the patient has difficulty swallowing or
cannot swallow tablets or liquid dosage forms (solution/suspension), approve
ketorolac nasal spray (Sprix, authorized generic), Pennsaid 2%, diclofenac
sodium 2% topical solution, Flector Patch, diclofenac epolamine 1.3% patch, or
Licart topical system.
4. If the patient has tried generic diclofenac sodium topical solution 1.5% OR
diclofenac sodium 1% topical gel and the patient has a chronic musculoskeletal
pain condition (e.g., osteoarthritis) and is at risk of NSAID-associated toxicity,
approve Pennsaid 2%, or diclofenac sodium 2% topical solution.
Note: Examples of risk factors of NSAID-associated toxicity include patients
with a previous gastrointestinal bleed, history of peptic ulcer disease, impaired
renal function, cardiovascular disease, hypertension, heart failure, elderly
patients with impaired hepatic function, or taking concomitant anticoagulants.
5. If the patient has tried generic diclofenac sodium topical solution 1.5% OR
diclofenac sodium 1% topical gel and the patient has hand or knee
osteoarthritis, approve Pennsaid 2%, or diclofenac sodium 2% topical solution.
Step 2b NSAID (Vimovo, generic)
1. If the patient has tried one prescription proton pump inhibitor (PPI) [e.g.,
omeprazole, lansoprazole, pantoprazole] and one prescription naproxen product
(brand or generic), approve naproxen/esomeprazole delayed-release tablets
(Vimovo, generic).
Note: Do not approve naproxen/esomeprazole delayed-release tablets (Vimovo,
generic) if the patient has only tried over-the-counter (OTC) naproxen, NSAIDs
other than naproxen, a COX-2 inhibitor (celecoxib), or OTC PPIs.
8 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Step Therapy Policy
Note: Separate trials of a prescription PPI and a prescription naproxen product
are required; a previous trial of Vimovo or generic naproxen/esomeprazole does
not count.
Step 2c NSAID (Duexis, generic)
1. If the patient has tried one prescription histamine -receptor antagonist (H RA)
2 2
[e.g., famotidine, ranitidine, nizatidine] and one prescription ibuprofen product
(brand or generic), approve ibuprofen/famotidine tablets (Duexis, generic).
Note: Do not approve ibuprofen/famotidine tablets (Duexis, generic) if the
patient has only tried over-the-counter (OTC) ibuprofen, NSAIDs other than
ibuprofen, a COX-2 inhibitor (celecoxib), or OTC H RAs.
2
Note: Separate trials of a prescription H RA and a prescription ibuprofen
2
product are required; a previous trial of Duexis or generic ibuprofen/famotidine
does not count.
REFERENCES
1. Facts and Comparisons Online®. Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.; Last updated June 11, 2024.
Available at: http://fco.factsandcomparisons.com/action/home. Accessed on January 14, 2025.
Search term: Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents.
2. Cambia® oral solution [prescribing information]. Lake Forest, IL: Assertio; April 2021.
3. American Headache Society. The American Headache Society position statement on integrating
new migraine treatments into clinical practice. Headache. 2019; 59:1-18.
4. Kolasinki SL, Neogi T, Hochberg MC, et al. 2019 American College of Rheumatology/Arthritis
Foundation guideline for the management of osteoarthritis of the hand, hip, and knee. Arthritis
Rheumatol. 2020; 72(2):220–233.
5. Kloppenburg M, Kroon F, Blanco FJ, et al. 2018 update of the EULAR recommendations for the
management of hand osteoarthritis. Ann Rheum Dis. 2019; 78:16-24.
6. Bannuru RR, Osani MC, Vaysbrot EE, et al. OARSI guidelines for the non-surgical management of
knee, hip, and polyarticular osteoarthritis. Osteoarthritis Cartilage. 2019; 27(11):1578-1589.
7. The American Geriatrics Society Beers Criteria® Update Expert Panel. American Geriatrics Society
2023 updated AGS Beers Criteria for potentially inappropriate medication use in older adults. J Am
Geriatr Soc. 2023;71(7):2052-2081.
HISTORY
Type of Summary of Changes Review Date
Revision
Early Annual Coxanto: Coxanto capsule was added to the Policy to Step 01/17/2024
Revision 2a.
Selected Indomethacin suspension: indomethacin oral suspension 02/14/2024
Revision (generic Indocin suspension) was added to the Policy to Step
2a.
Annual Revision Step 1a NSAIDs: Cataflam (brand name) is obsolete and 01/22/2025
was removed throughout the Policy.
Step 2a NSAIDs: Fenortho, Mobic, Voltaren Gel, Voltaren
XR, Qmiiz ODT, and Relafen (all brand names) are obsolete
and were removed throughout the Policy.
Selected Fenopron (fenoprofen calcium capsules) was added to the 03/05/2025
Revision Policy to Step 2a.
8 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Step Therapy Policy
Diclofenac potassium 25 mg capsules and naproxen DR 500
mg tablets were moved from Step 1a to Step 2a.
Diclofenac sodium 1% topical gel was moved from Step 2a to
Step 1a. The previous requirement for trial of “generic
diclofenac sodium topical solution 1.5%” was updated to
include “or diclofenac sodium 1% topical gel” throughout the
Policy.
"Cigna Companies" refers to operating subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. All products and services are
provided exclusively by or through such operating subsidiaries, including Cigna Health and Life
Insurance Company, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Evernorth Behavioral Health, Inc.,
Cigna Health Management, Inc., and HMO or service company subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. ©
2025 The Cigna Group.
8 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs Step Therapy Policy