PRIOR AUTHORIZATION POLICY
POLICY: Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior Authorization
Policy
• Enbrel (etanercept subcutaneous injection − Immunex/Amgen)
REVIEW DATE: 09/25/2024
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
THE FOLLOWING COVERAGE POLICY APPLIES TO HEALTH BENEFIT PLANS ADMINISTERED BY CIGNA COMPANIES. CERTAIN CIGNA
COMPANIES AND/OR LINES OF BUSINESS ONLY PROVIDE UTILIZATION REVIEW SERVICES TO CLIENTS AND DO NOT MAKE COVERAGE
DETERMINATIONS. REFERENCES TO STANDARD BENEFIT PLAN LANGUAGE AND COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS DO NOT APPLY TO THOSE
CLIENTS. COVERAGE POLICIES ARE INTENDED TO PROVIDE GUIDANCE IN INTERPRETING CERTAIN STANDARD BENEFIT PLANS
ADMINISTERED BY CIGNA COMPANIES. PLEASE NOTE, THE TERMS OF A CUSTOMER'S PARTICULAR BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT [GROUP
SERVICE AGREEMENT, EVIDENCE OF COVERAGE, CERTIFICATE OF COVERAGE, SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION (SPD) OR SIMILAR
PLAN DOCUMENT] MAY DIFFER SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THE STANDARD BENEFIT PLANS UPON WHICH THESE COVERAGE POLICIES ARE
BASED. FOR EXAMPLE, A CUSTOMER'S BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT MAY CONTAIN A SPECIFIC EXCLUSION RELATED TO A TOPIC
ADDRESSED IN A COVERAGE POLICY. IN THE EVENT OF A CONFLICT, A CUSTOMER'S BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT ALWAYS SUPERSEDES
THE INFORMATION IN THE COVERAGE POLICIES. IN THE ABSENCE OF A CONTROLLING FEDERAL OR STATE COVERAGE MANDATE,
BENEFITS ARE ULTIMATELY DETERMINED BY THE TERMS OF THE APPLICABLE BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT. COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS
IN EACH SPECIFIC INSTANCE REQUIRE CONSIDERATION OF 1) THE TERMS OF THE APPLICABLE BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT IN EFFECT ON
THE DATE OF SERVICE; 2) ANY APPLICABLE LAWS/REGULATIONS; 3) ANY RELEVANT COLLATERAL SOURCE MATERIALS INCLUDING
COVERAGE POLICIES AND; 4) THE SPECIFIC FACTS OF THE PARTICULAR SITUATION. EACH COVERAGE REQUEST SHOULD BE REVIEWED
ON ITS OWN MERITS. MEDICAL DIRECTORS ARE EXPECTED TO EXERCISE CLINICAL JUDGMENT AND HAVE DISCRETION IN MAKING
INDIVIDUAL COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS. COVERAGE POLICIES RELATE EXCLUSIVELY TO THE ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH BENEFIT
PLANS. COVERAGE POLICIES ARE NOT RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TREATMENT AND SHOULD NEVER BE USED AS TREATMENT GUIDELINES.
IN CERTAIN MARKETS, DELEGATED VENDOR GUIDELINES MAY BE USED TO SUPPORT MEDICAL NECESSITY AND OTHER COVERAGE
DETERMINATIONS.
CIGNA NATIONAL FORMULARY COVERAGE:
OVERVIEW
Etanercept products are tumor necrosis factor inhibitors (TNFis) approved for the
following uses:1
• Ankylosing spondylitis, for reducing signs and symptoms in patients with
active disease.
• Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), for reducing the signs and symptoms
of moderate or severe active polyarticular disease in patients ≥ 2 years of
age.
• Plaque psoriasis, for treatment patients ≥ 4 years of age with chronic
moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy
or phototherapy.
• Psoriatic arthritis, in adults ± methotrexate for reducing the signs and
symptoms, inhibiting the progression of structural damage of active arthritis,
and improving physical function. Additionally, Enbrel is approved for the
treatment of active juvenile psoriatic arthritis in patients ≥ 2 years of age.
• Rheumatoid arthritis, ± methotrexate for reducing the signs and
symptoms, inducing major clinical response, inhibiting the progression of
structural damage, and improving physical function in patients with moderate
or severe active disease.
Page 1 of 18 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
Guidelines
TNFis feature prominently in guidelines for treatment of inflammatory conditions.
• Ankylosing Spondylitis and Spondyloarthritis: Guidelines for ankylosing
spondylitis and non-radiographic axial spondylitis are published by the
American College of Rheumatology (ACR)/Spondylitis Association of
America/Spondyloarthritis Research and Treatment Network (2019).5 TNFis
are recommended for the initial biologic. In those who are secondary non-
responders to a TNFi, a second TNFi is recommended over switching out of
the class.
• JIA: There are guidelines from ACR and the Arthritis Foundation for the
treatment of JIA (2021) which address oligoarthritis and temporomandibular
joint (TMJ) arthritis.47 For oligoarthritis, a biologic is recommended following
a trial of a conventional synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drug
(DMARD). In patients with TMJ arthritis, scheduled nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and/or intra-articular glucocorticoids are
recommended first-line. A biologic is a therapeutic option if there is an
inadequate response or intolerance. Additionally, rapid escalation to a
biologic ± conventional synthetic DMARD (methotrexate preferred) is often
appropriate given the impact and destructive nature of TMJ arthritis. In
these guidelines, there is not a preferred biologic that should be initiated for
JIA. There are also guidelines from the ACR/Arthritis Foundation for the
treatment of JIA (2019) specific to juvenile non-systemic polyarthritis,
sacroiliitis, and enthesitis.3 TNFis are the biologics recommended for
polyarthritis, sacroiliitis, and enthesitis. Biologics are recommended following
other therapies (e.g., following DMARDs for active polyarthritis or following
an NSAID for active JIA with sacroiliitis or enthesitis). However, there are
situations where initial therapy with a biologic may be preferred over other
conventional therapies (e.g., if there is involvement of high-risk joints such
as the cervical spine, wrist, or hip; high disease activity; and/or those judged
to be at high risk of disabling joint damage). TNFis may also be used as
second- or third-line treatment for systemic JIA.4
• Plaque Psoriasis: Guidelines from the American Academy of
Dermatologists and National Psoriasis Foundation (2019) recommend
etanercept as a monotherapy treatment option for adults with moderate to
severe disease.7
• Psoriatic Arthritis: Guidelines from ACR (2019) recommend TNFis over
other biologics for use in treatment-naïve patients with psoriatic arthritis and
in those who were previously treated with an oral therapy.8
• Rheumatoid Arthritis: Guidelines from ACR (2021) recommend addition of
a biologic or a targeted synthetic DMARD for a patient taking the maximum
tolerated dose of methotrexate who is not at target.22
Other Uses with Supportive Evidence
There are guidelines and/or published data supporting the use of etanercept
products in the following conditions:
• Behcet’s Disease: The European Union Against Rheumatism (EULAR)
recommendations (2018) include TNFis for initial or recurrent sight-
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
threatening uveitis.9 For patients refractory to first-line treatments (e.g.,
corticosteroids), TNFis are among the treatment options for mucocutaneous
manifestations, venous thrombosis, severe or refractory gastrointestinal
disease, and recurrent/chronic joint involvement. Recommendations for the
use of TNFis in ocular inflammatory disorders from the American Academy of
Ophthalmology (AAO) [2014] note that TNFis may be used first-line in
patients with ophthalmic manifestations of Behcet’s disease and for acute
exacerbations of pre-existing Behcet’s disease.8 In particular, the
monoclonal antibodies (adalimumab or infliximab products) are
recommended for vision-threatening ocular manifestations of Behcet’s
disease.
• Graft-Versus-Host Disease: Guidelines for hematopoietic cell
transplantation from the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (version
2.2022 – September 28, 2022) list etanercept among the agents used for
steroid-refractory acute and chronic disease.46
• Pyoderma Gangrenosum: Although guidelines are not current, multiple
topical and systemic therapies have been used for pyoderma gangrenosum.
Oral prednisone is the most common initial immunosuppressant
medication.10-13 Other systemic therapies include cyclosporine,
methotrexate, azathioprine, cyclophosphamide, mycophenolate mofetil, and
TNFis (i.e., infliximab, etanercept, and adalimumab products). In case
reports, TNFis have been effective.
• Still’s Disease: There are no current guidelines for treatment of Still’s
disease. However, it presents in adults with features similar to those of
systemic onset JIA.24 In addition, there is a small trial which demonstrated
efficacy of etanercept used for this condition.
POLICY STATEMENT
Prior Authorization is recommended for prescription benefit coverage of etanercept
products. Because of the specialized skills required for evaluation and diagnosis of
a patient as well as the monitoring required for adverse events and long-term
efficacy, initial approval requires etanercept products to be prescribed by or in
consultation with a physician who specializes in the condition being treated. All
approvals are for the duration noted below. In cases where the approval is
authorized in months, 1 month is equal to 30 days.
• Enbrel (etanercept subcutaneous injection - Immunex/Amgen)
is(are) covered as medically necessary when the following criteria is(are)
met for FDA-approved indication(s) or other uses with supportive evidence
(if applicable):
FDA-Approved Indications
1. Ankylosing Spondylitis. Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets
ONE of the following (A or B):
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets BOTH of the
following (i and ii):
i. Patient is > 18 years of age; AND
ii. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a rheumatologist.
B) Patient is Currently Receiving an Etanercept Product. Approve for 1 year if
the patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii):
i. Patient has been established on therapy for at least 6 months; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with an etanercept product is reviewed under criterion
A (Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient meets at least one of the following (a or b):
a) When assessed by at least one objective measure, patient experienced
a beneficial clinical response from baseline (prior to initiating an
etanercept product); OR
Note: Examples of objective measures include Ankylosing Spondylitis
Disease Activity Score (ASDAS), Ankylosing Spondylitis Quality of Life
Scale (ASQoL), Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index
(BASDAI), Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index (BASFI), Bath
Ankylosing Spondylitis Global Score (BAS-G), Bath Ankylosing
Spondylitis Metrology Index (BASMI), Dougados Functional Index
(DFI), Health Assessment Questionnaire for the Spondyloarthropathies
(HAQ-S), and/or serum markers (e.g., C-reactive protein, erythrocyte
sedimentation rate).
b) Compared with baseline (prior to initiating an etanercept product),
patient experienced an improvement in at least one symptom, such as
decreased pain or stiffness, or improvement in function or activities of
daily living.
2. Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (JIA). Approve for the duration noted if the
patient meets ONE of the following (A or B):
Note: This includes JIA regardless of type of onset, including a patient with
juvenile spondyloarthropathy/active sacroiliac arthritis. JIA is also referred to as
Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis.
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the
following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient is > 2 years of age; AND
ii. Patient meets ONE of the following conditions (a, b, c, or d):
a) Patient has tried one other systemic medication for this condition; OR
Note: Examples of other systemic therapy for JIA include
methotrexate, sulfasalazine, leflunomide, or a nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory drug (NSAID) [e.g., ibuprofen, naproxen]. A previous
trial of one biologic other than the requested drug also counts as a trial
of one agent for JIA. A biosimilar of the requested biologic does not
count. Refer to Appendix for examples of biologics used for JIA.
b) Patient will be starting on therapy concurrently with methotrexate,
sulfasalazine, or leflunomide; OR
c) Patient has an absolute contraindication to methotrexate,
sulfasalazine, or leflunomide; OR
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
Note: Examples of contraindications to methotrexate include
pregnancy, breast feeding, alcoholic liver disease, immunodeficiency
syndrome, blood dyscrasias.
d) Patient has aggressive disease, as determined by the prescriber; AND
iii. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a rheumatologist.
B) Patient is Currently Receiving an Etanercept Product. Approve for 1 year if
the patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii):
i. Patient has been established on therapy for at least 6 months; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with an etanercept product is reviewed under criterion
A (Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient meets at least ONE of the following (a or b):
a) When assessed by at least one objective measure, patient experienced
a beneficial clinical response from baseline (prior to initiating an
etanercept product); OR
Note: Examples of objective measures include Physician Global
Assessment (MD global), Parent/Patient Global Assessment of Overall
Well-Being (PGA), Parent/Patient Global Assessment of Disease
Activity (PDA), Juvenile Arthritis Disease Activity Score (JDAS), Clinical
Juvenile Arthritis Disease Activity Score (cJDAS), Juvenile
Spondyloarthritis Disease Activity Index (JSpADA), serum markers
(e.g., C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate), and/or
reduced dosage of corticosteroids.
b) Compared with baseline (prior to initiating an etanercept product),
patient experienced an improvement in at least one symptom, such as
improvement in limitation of motion, less joint pain or tenderness,
decreased duration of morning stiffness or fatigue, improved function
or activities of daily living.
3. Plaque Psoriasis. Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of
the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 3 months if the patient meets ALL of the
following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient is ≥ 4 years of age; AND
ii. Patient meets ONE of the following conditions (a or b):
a) Patient has tried at least one traditional systemic agent for psoriasis
for at least 3 months, unless intolerant; OR
Note: Examples include methotrexate, cyclosporine, or acitretin. A 3-
month trial of psoralen plus ultraviolet A light (PUVA) also counts. An
exception to the requirement for a trial of one traditional systemic
agent for psoriasis can be made if the patient has already has a 3-
month trial or previous intolerance to at least one biologic other than
the requested drug. A biosimilar of the requested biologic does not
count. . Refer to Appendix for examples of biologics used for
psoriasis. A patient who has already tried a biologic for psoriasis is not
required to “step back” and try a traditional systemic agent for
psoriasis.
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
b) Patient has a contraindication to methotrexate, as determined by the
prescriber; AND
iii. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a dermatologist.
B) Patient is Currently Receiving an Etanercept Product. Approve for 1 year if
the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient has been established on therapy for at least 3 months; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 3 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with an etanercept product is reviewed under criterion
A (Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient experienced a beneficial clinical response, defined as improvement
from baseline (prior to initiating an etanercept product) in at least one of
the following: estimated body surface area, erythema,
induration/thickness, and/or scale of areas affected by psoriasis; AND
iii. Compared with baseline (prior to receiving an etanercept product),
patient experienced an improvement in at least one symptom, such as
decreased pain, itching, and/or burning.
4. Psoriatic Arthritis. Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of
the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets BOTH of the
following (i and ii):
i. Patient is > 2 years of age; AND
ii. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a rheumatologist
or a dermatologist.
B) Patient is Currently Receiving an Etanercept Product. Approve for 1 year if
the patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii):
i. Patient has been established on therapy for at least 6 months; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with an etanercept product is reviewed under criterion
A (Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient meets at least ONE of the following (a or b):
a) When assessed by at least one objective measure, patient experienced
a beneficial clinical response from baseline (prior to initiating an
etanercept product); OR
Note: Examples of standardized measures of disease activity include
Disease Activity Index for Psoriatic Arthritis (DAPSA), Composite
Psoriatic Disease Activity Index (CPDAI), Psoriatic Arthritis Disease
Activity Score (PsA DAS), Grace Index, Leeds Enthesitis Score (LEI),
Spondyloarthritis Consortium of Canada (SPARCC) enthesitis score,
Leeds Dactylitis Instrument Score, Minimal Disease Activity (MDA),
Psoriatic Arthritis Impact of Disease (PsAID-12), and/or serum
markers (e.g., C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate).
b) Compared with baseline (prior to initiating an etanercept product),
patient experienced an improvement in at least one symptom, such as
less joint pain, morning stiffness, or fatigue; improved function or
activities of daily living; decreased soft tissue swelling in joints or
tendon sheaths).
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
5. Rheumatoid Arthritis. Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets
ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the
following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient is > 18 years of age; AND
ii. Patient has tried ONE conventional synthetic disease-modifying
antirheumatic drug (DMARD) for at least 3 months; AND
Note: Examples include methotrexate (oral or injectable), leflunomide,
hydroxychloroquine, and sulfasalazine. An exception to the requirement
for a trial of one conventional synthetic DMARD can be made if the patient
has already has a 3-month trial at least one biologic other than the
requested drug. A biosimilar of the requested biologic does not count.
Refer to Appendix for examples of biologics used for rheumatoid arthritis.
A patient who has already tried a biologic for rheumatoid arthritis is not
required to “step back” and try a conventional synthetic DMARD.
ii. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a rheumatologist.
B) Patient is Currently Receiving an Etanercept Product. Approve for 1 year if
the patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii):
i. Patient has been established on therapy for at least 6 months; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with an etanercept product is reviewed under criterion
A (Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient meets at least ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Patient experienced a beneficial clinical response when assessed by at
least one objective measure; OR
Note: Examples of objective measures of disease activity include
Clinical Disease Activity Index (CDAI), Disease Activity Score (DAS) 28
using erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) or C-reactive protein
(CRP), Patient Activity Scale (PAS)-II, Rapid Assessment of Patient
Index Data 3 (RAPID-3), and/or Simplified Disease Activity Index
(SDAI).
b) Patient experienced an improvement in at least one symptom, such as
decreased joint pain, morning stiffness, or fatigue; improved function
or activities of daily living; decreased soft tissue swelling in joints or
tendon sheaths.
Other Uses with Supportive Evidence
6. Behcet’s Disease. Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of
the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 3 months if the patient meets ALL of the
following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient is > 2 years of age; AND
ii. Patient has tried at least one conventional therapy; AND
Note: Examples include systemic corticosteroids (e.g.,
methylprednisolone), immunosuppressants (e.g., azathioprine,
methotrexate, mycophenolate mofetil, cyclosporine, tacrolimus, Leukeran
[chlorambucil], cyclophosphamide, interferon alfa). A patient who has
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
already tried one biologic other than the requested drug for Behcet’s
disease is not required to “step back” and try a conventional therapy. A
biosimilar of the requested biologic does not count.
iii. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a rheumatologist,
dermatologist, ophthalmologist, gastroenterologist, or neurologist.
B) Patient is Currently Receiving an Etanercept Product. Approve for 1 year if
the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient has been established on therapy for at least 3 months; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 3 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with an etanercept product is reviewed under criterion
A (Initial Therapy).
ii. When assessed by at least one objective measure, patient experienced a
beneficial clinical response from baseline (prior to initiating an etanercept
product); AND
Note: Examples of objective measures are dependent upon organ
involvement but may include best-corrected visual acuity (if ophthalmic
manifestations); serum markers (e.g., C-reactive protein, erythrocyte
sedimentation rate); ulcer depth, number, and/or lesion size.
iii. Compared with baseline (prior to initiating an etanercept product), patient
experienced an improvement in at least one symptom, such as decreased
pain, or improved visual acuity (if ophthalmic manifestations).
7. Graft-Versus-Host Disease. Approve for the duration noted if the patient
meets ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 1 month if the patient meets ALL of the
following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient is > 6 years of age; AND
ii. Patient has tried at least one conventional systemic treatment for graft-
versus-host disease; AND
Note: Examples of conventional systemic treatments include systemic
corticosteroids (e.g., methylprednisolone), antithymocyte globulin,
cyclosporine, tacrolimus, and mycophenolate mofetil.
iii. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an oncologist,
hematologist, or a physician affiliated with a transplant center.
B) Patient is Currently Receiving an Etanercept Product. Approve for 3 months
if the patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii):
i. Patient has been established on therapy for at least 1 month; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 1 month of therapy or who is
restarting therapy is reviewed under criterion A (Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient meets at least ONE of the following (a or b):
a) When assessed by at least one objective measure, patient experienced
a beneficial clinical response from baseline (prior to initiating an
etanercept product); OR
Note: Examples of objective measures are normalization of liver
function tests, red blood cell count, or platelet count; or resolution of
fever or rash.
b) Compared with baseline (prior to initiating an etanercept product),
patient experienced an improvement in at least one symptom, such as
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
improvement in skin, oral mucosal, ocular, or gastrointestinal
symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, anorexia).
8. Pyoderma Gangrenosum. Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets
ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 4 months if the patient meets ALL of the
following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient is > 18 years of age; AND
ii. Patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Patient has tried one systemic corticosteroid; OR
Note: An example is prednisone.
b) Patient has tried one other immunosuppressant for at least 2 months
or was intolerant to one of these medications; AND
Note: Examples include mycophenolate mofetil and cyclosporine.
iii. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a dermatologist.
B) Patient is Currently Receiving an Etanercept Product. Approve for 1 year if
the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient has been established on therapy for at least 4 months; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 4 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with an etanercept product is reviewed under criterion
A (Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient experienced a beneficial clinical response, defined as improvement
from baseline (prior to initiating an etanercept product) in at least one of
the following: size, depth, and/or number of lesions; AND
iii. Compared with baseline (prior to initiating an etanercept product), patient
experienced an improvement in at least one symptom, such as decreased
pain and/or tenderness of affected lesion(s).
9. Spondyloarthritis, Other Subtypes. Approve for the duration noted if the
patient meets ONE of the following (A or B):
Note: This includes undifferentiated arthritis, non-radiographic axial
spondyloarthritis, Reactive Arthritis (Reiter’s disease). For Ankylosing
Spondylitis or Psoriatic Arthritis, refer to the respective criteria under FDA-
approved indications.
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the
following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient is > 18 years of age; AND
ii. Patient meets ONE of the following conditions (a or b):
a) Patient has arthritis primarily in the knees, ankles, elbows, wrists,
hands, and/or feet AND has tried at least ONE conventional synthetic
disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD); OR
Note: Examples include methotrexate, leflunomide, sulfasalazine.
b) Patient has axial spondyloarthritis AND has objective signs of
inflammation, defined as at least one of the following [(1) or (2)]:
(1) C-reactive protein (CRP) elevated beyond the upper limit of
normal for the reporting laboratory; OR
(2) Sacroiliitis reported on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); AND
iii. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a rheumatologist.
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
B) Patient is Currently Receiving an Etanercept Product. Approve for 1 year if
the patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii):
i. Patient has been established on therapy for at least 6 months; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with an etanercept product is reviewed under criterion
A (Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient meets at least ONE of the following (a or b):
a) When assessed by at least one objective measure, patient experienced
a beneficial clinical response from baseline (prior to initiating an
etanercept product); OR
Note: Examples of objective measures include Ankylosing Spondylitis
Disease Activity Score (ASDAS) and/or serum markers (e.g., C-
reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate).
b) Compared with baseline (prior to initiating an etanercept product),
patient experienced an improvement in at least one symptom, such as
decreased pain or stiffness, or improvement in function or activities of
daily living.
10. Still’s Disease. Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of
the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the
following (i, ii, iii, and iv):
i. Patient is > 18 years of age; AND
ii. Patient has tried one corticosteroid; AND
iii. Patient has tried one conventional synthetic disease-modifying
antirheumatic drug (DMARD) given for at least 2 months or was
intolerant; AND
Note: An example of a conventional synthetic DMARD is methotrexate. A
previous trial of one biologic other than the requested drug (e.g., Actemra
[tocilizumab intravenous injection, tocilizumab subcutaneous injection],
Arcalyst [rilonacept subcutaneous injection], Ilaris [canakinumab
subcutaneous injection]) also counts towards a trial of one other systemic
agent for Still’s disease. A biosimilar of the requested biologic does not
count.
iv. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a rheumatologist.
B) Patient is Currently Receiving an Etanercept Product. Approve for 1 year if
the patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii):
i. Patient has been established on therapy for at least 6 months; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with an etanercept product is reviewed under criterion
A (Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient meets at least ONE of the following (a or b):
a) When assessed by at least one objective measure, patient experienced
a beneficial clinical response from baseline (prior to initiating an
etanercept product); OR
Note: Examples of objective measures include resolution of fever,
improvement in rash or skin manifestations, clinically significant
improvement or normalization of serum markers (e.g., C-reactive
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate), and/or reduced dosage of
corticosteroids.
b) Compared with baseline (prior to initiating an etanercept product),
patient experienced an improvement in at least one symptom, such as
less joint pain/tenderness, stiffness, or swelling; decreased fatigue;
improved function or activities of daily living.
• Enbrel (etanercept subcutaneous injection (Immunex/Amgen)
is(are) considered experimental, investigational or unproven for ANY other
use(s) including the following (this list may not be all inclusive; criteria
will be updated as new published data are available):
CONDITIONS NOT COVERED
1. Concurrent Use with a Biologic or with a Targeted Synthetic Oral Small
Molecule Drug. This medication should not be administered in combination
with another biologic or with a targeted synthetic oral small molecule drug used
for an inflammatory condition (see Appendix for examples). Combination
therapy is generally not recommended due to a potentially higher rate of
adverse events and lack of controlled clinical data supporting additive efficacy.
Note: This does NOT exclude the use of conventional synthetic DMARDs (e.g.,
methotrexate, leflunomide, hydroxychloroquine, or sulfasalazine) in combination
with this medication.
2. Crohn’s Disease. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial etanercept
(Enbrel) was not effective for the treatment of moderate to severe Crohn’s
disease.25 However, arthritis (spondyloarthropathy, ankylosing spondylitis) may
be associated with Crohn’s disease and etanercept products may be effective for
spondyloarthropathy in these patients.26
3. Inflammatory Myopathies (Polymyositis, Dermatomyositis, Inclusion
Body Myositis). Information is conflicting. In one retrospective review of
eight patients with either dermatomyositis or polymyositis some patients
responded (improved motor strength and decreased fatigue) to treatment with
an etanercept product.27 In this case series, an etanercept product was added
on to treatment with corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulin, and DMARDs;
there were no standardized outcome measures. In another case series in
patients (n = 5) with dermatomyositis who had not responded to steroids and
cytotoxic therapy (methotrexate, azathioprine, cyclosporine), the cytotoxic
drugs were discontinued and etanercept was given for at least 3 months.28 All
patients had exacerbation of disease and etanercept was stopped. In a 1-year,
double-blind study, patients were randomized to receive etanercept 50 mg
weekly (n = 11) or placebo (n = 5).29 All patients who received placebo were
judged as treatment failures whereas five patients in the etanercept group were
successfully weaned off of prednisone. More studies are needed demonstrating
the efficacy of etanercept and its long-term effects.30 In a 6-month, open-label
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
study of etanercept in patients with refractory juvenile dermatomyositis (n = 9),
minimal improvement was noted in disease activity with some patients
experiencing worsening disease.31
4. Hidradenitis Suppurativa. A prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-
controlled study assigned patients (n = 20) to treatment with etanercept 50 mg
twice weekly or placebo for 12 weeks.32 Following 12 weeks of treatment, all
patients received open-label etanercept for an additional 12 weeks. The study
found no statistically significant difference between etanercept 50 mg twice
weekly and placebo among physician global assessment, patient global
assessment, and the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) at Week 12 or Week
24. A systematic review (2013) extracted data from case reports and
randomized, controlled trials and recommended against the use of etanercept
for treatment of hidradenitis suppurativa.33
5. Polymyalgia Rheumatica (PMR). ACR/EULAR guidelines for the management
of PMR (2015) strongly recommend against the use of TNFis for treatment of
PMR.34 This recommendation is based on lack of evidence for benefit as well as
considerable potential for potential harm. While etanercept has been evaluated
in small numbers of patients with PMR, efficacy has not been established.35-37
6. Sarcoidosis. Evidence does not support use of etanercept in ocular or
pulmonary disease. Recommendations for the use of TNFis in ocular
inflammatory disorders from the AAO (2014) note that infliximab or adalimumab
may be considered as second-line immunomodulatory therapy for patients
failing or intolerant of standard immunomodulatory agents.8 A discretionary
recommendation (indicating trade-offs are less certain) is that etanercept should
not be used in the treatment of ocular sarcoidosis (moderate-quality evidence).
In a double-blind study patients (n = 18) with chronic ocular sarcoidosis and
ongoing inflammation were randomized to etanercept or placebo for 6 months.38
Patients had received ≥ 6 months of therapy with methotrexate and were
currently on corticosteroids. For most of the patients, therapy with etanercept
was not associated with significant improvement. In a prospective, open-label
trial in patients with Stage II or III progressive pulmonary sarcoidosis,
treatment with etanercept was frequently associated with early or late treatment
failure.39 This trial was ended early because an excessive number of patients (n
= 11/17) had disease progression on etanercept. Recommendations for best
practice in the management of pulmonary and systemic sarcoidosis mention
infliximab and adalimumab as therapeutic options for management of disease.40
7. Large Vessel Vasculitis (e.g., Giant Cell Arteritis, Takayasu’s Arteritis).
Guidelines from EULAR for the management of large vessel vasculitis (e.g., giant
cell arteritis, Takayasu’s arteritis) do not mention the use of TNFis.41
Additionally, a meta-analysis of RCTs did not find evidence supporting remission
or reduction of corticosteroid dose with the use of TNFis in large vessel
vasculitis.42 In a double-blind trial patients with biopsy proven giant cell arteritis
with AEs due to corticosteroids were randomized to etanercept 25 mg twice
weekly (n = 8) or placebo (n = 9) for 12 months.43 Corticosteroids were
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
continued but were reduced if possible according to a predefined protocol. The
primary outcome was the ability to withdraw the corticosteroid therapy and
control disease activity at 12 months. After 12 months, there was not a
statistically significant difference in the proportion of patients able to control
disease without corticosteroid therapy with etanercept (50%) vs. placebo
(22.2%). However, patients on etanercept had a significantly lower dose of
accumulated prednisone during the first year of treatment (P = 0.03). In a
retrospective single center study in patients with refractory Takayasu’s arteritis
(n = 25), patients were treated with infliximab (n = 21) or etanercept (n = 9).44
Five patients who were initially treated with etanercept were switched to
infliximab. Therapy with TNFis was associated with remission in many patients
and dose reduction or discontinuation of prednisone and other
immunosuppressant therapies. A randomized controlled trial is needed to better
define the efficacy and safety of etanercept.
8. Wegener’s Granulomatosis. Etanercept is not effective in the induction or
maintenance of disease remissions in patients with Wegener’s granulomatosis.
In a double-blind trial, 180 patients with active Wegener’s granulomatosis were
randomized to etanercept or placebo in combination with standard therapies
(e.g., cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, corticosteroids) depending on disease
severity.45 When remission was achieved, standard medications were tapered
according to protocol guidelines. Patients were enrolled over 28 months and the
mean follow-up was 27 months. Of the 174 patients who were evaluable, 126
patients (72.4%) achieved sustained remissions, but only 86 patients overall
(49.4%) maintained their disease remissions throughout the trial. There were
no differences between etanercept and the control group in the percent of
patients achieving sustained remissions (69.7% vs. 75.3%, P = 0.39); in the
percent of patients with sustained periods of low disease activity (86.5% vs.
90.6%); or time to achieve these outcomes. Disease flares were common in
both groups. AEs were frequent and often severe. During the study, 56.2% of
patients on etanercept and 57.1% on placebo had at least one severe or life-
threatening adverse event or died. Six of the etanercept patients and none of
the controls developed solid malignancies. Use of etanercept in patients with
Wegener’s granulomatosis who are receiving immunosuppressant drugs is not
recommended.1
REFERENCES
1. Enbrel® subcutaneous injection [prescribing information]. Thousand Oaks, CA: Immunex/Amgen;
September 2024.
2. Fraenkel L, Bathon JM, England BR, et al. 2021 American College of Rheumatology guideline for
the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2021;73(7):1108-1123.
3. Ringold S, Angeles-Han ST, Beukelman T, et al. 2019 American College of Rheumatology/Arthritis
Foundation Guideline for the treatment of juvenile idiopathic arthritis: therapeutic approaches for
non-systemic polyarthritis, sacroiliitis, and enthesitis. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2019;71(6):846-863.
4. Ringold S, Weiss PF, Beukelman T, et al. 2013 update of the 2011 American College of
Rheumatology recommendations for the treatment of juvenile idiopathic arthritis:
recommendations for the medical therapy of children with systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis and
tuberculosis screening among children receiving biologic medications. Arthritis Rheum.
2013;65(10):2499-2512.
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
5. Ward MM, Deodhar A, Gensler LS, et al. 2019 update of the American College of
Rheumatology/Spondylitis Association of America/Spondyloarthritis Research and Treatment
Network recommendations for the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis and nonradiographic axial
spondyloarthritis. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2019;71(10):1599-1613.
6. Menter A, Strober BE, Kaplan DH, et al. Joint AAD-NPF guidelines of care for the management
and treatment of psoriasis with biologics. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2019;80(4):1029-1072.
7. Singh JA, Guyatt G, Ogdie A, et al. 2018 American College of Rheumatology/National Psoriasis
Foundation Guideline for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken).
2019;71(1):2-29.
8. Levy-Clarke G, Jabs DA, Read RW, et al. Expert panel recommendations for the use of anti-tumor
necrosis factor biologic agents in patients with ocular inflammatory disorders. Ophthalmology.
2014;121(3):785-796.
9. Hatemi G, Silman A, Bang, D, et al. EULAR recommendations for the management of Behcet
disease. Ann Rheum Dis. 2008;67:1656-1662.
10. Dabade TS, Davis MD. Diagnosis and treatment of the neutrophilic dermatoses (pyoderma
gangrenosum, Sweet's syndrome). Dermatol Ther. 2011;24(2):273-284.
11. Charles CA, Leon A, Banta MR, et al. Etanercept for the treatment of refractory pyoderma
gangrenosum: a brief series. Int J Dermatol. 2007;46:1095-1099.
12. Roy DB, Conte ET, Cohen DJ. The treatment of pyoderma gangrenosum using etanercept. J Am
Acad Dermatol. 2006;54(3 Suppl 2):S128-134.
13. Reichrath J, Bens G, Bonowitz A, et al. Treatment recommendations for pyoderma gangrenosum:
an evidence-based review of the literature based on more than 350 patients. J Am Acad
Dermatol. 2005;53:273-283.
14. Dignan FL, Clark A, Amrolia P, et al. Diagnosis and management of acute graft-versus-host
disease. Br J Haematol. 2012;158(1):30-45.
15. Dignan FL, Amrolia P, Clark A, et al. Diagnosis and management of chronic graft-versus-host
disease. Br J Haematol. 2012;158(1):46-61.
16. Wolff D, Roessler V, Steiner B, et al. Treatment of steroid-resistant acute graft-versus-host
disease with daclizumab and etanercept. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2005;35:1003-1010.
17. Choi SW, Stiff P, Cooke K, et al. TNF-inhibition with etanercept for graft-versus-host disease
prevention in high-risk HCT: lower TNFR1 levels correlate with better outcomes. Biol Blood
Marrow Transplant. 2012;18(10):1525-1532.
18. Levine JE, Paczesny S, Mineishi S, et al. Etanercept plus methylprednisolone as initial therapy for
acute graft-versus-host disease. Blood. 2008;111:2470-2475.
19. Alousi AM, Weisdorf DJ, Logan BR, et al. Etanercept, mycophenolate, denileukin, or pentostatin
plus corticosteroid in acute graft-versus-host disease: a randomized phase 2 trial from the Blood
Marrow Transplant Clinical Trials Network. Blood. 2009;114(3):511-517.
20. Busca A, Locatelli F, Marmont F, et al. Recombinant human soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor
fusion protein as treatment for steroid refractory graft-versus-host disease following allogeneic
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Am J Hematol. 2007;82:45-52.
21. Kennedy GA, Butler J, Western R, et al. Combination antithymocyte globulin and soluble TNF
alpha inhibitor (etanercept) +/- mycophenolate mofetil for treatment of steroid refractory acute
graft-versus-host disease. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2006;37:1143-1147.
22. Chiang KY, Abhyankar S, Bridges K, et al. Recombinant human tumor necrosis factor receptor
fusion protein as complementary treatment for chronic graft-versus-host disease.
Transplantation. 2002;73:665-667.
23. Gatza E, Braun T, Levine JE, et al. Etanercept plus topical corticosteroids as initial therapy for
grade one acute graft-versus-host disease after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation. Biol
Blood Marrow Transplant. 2014;20(9):1426-1434.
24. Riera E, Olivé A, Narváez J, et al. Adult onset Still's disease: review of 41 cases. Clin Exp
Rheumatol. 2011;29(2):331-336.
25. Sandborn WJ, Hanauer SB, Katz S, et al. Etanercept for active Crohn’s disease: a randomized,
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Gastroenterology. 2001;121:1088-1094.
26. Marzo-Ortega H, McGonagle D, O’Connor P, et al. Efficacy of etanercept for treatment of Crohn’s
related spondyloarthritis but not colitis. Ann Rheum Dis. 2003;62:74-76.
27. Efthimiou P, Schwartzman S, Kagen LJ. Possible role for tumour necrosis factor inhibitors in the
treatment of resistant dermatomyositis and polymyositis: a retrospective study of eight patients.
Ann Rheum Dis. 2006;65:1233-1236.
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
28. Iannone F, Scioscia C, Falappone PC, et al. Use of etanercept in the treatment of
dermatomyositis: a case series. J Rheumatol. 2006;33:1802-1804.
29. Amato AA, Tawil R, Kissel J, et al. A randomized, pilot trial of etanercept in dermatomyositis. Ann
Neurol. 2011;70(3):427-436.
30. Iorizzo LJ 3rd, Jorizzo JL. The treatment and prognosis of dermatomyositis: an updated review. J
Am Acad Dermatol. 2008;59:99-112.
31. Rouster-Stevens KA, Ferguson L, Morgan G, et al. Pilot study of etanercept in patients with
refractory juvenile dermatomyositis. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken). 2014;66(5):783-787.
32. Adams DR, Yankura JA, Fogelberg AC, et al. Treatment of hidradenitis suppurativa with
etanercept injection. Arch Dermatol. 2010;146(5):501-504.
33. van Rappard DC, Limpens J, Mekkes JR. The off-label treatment of severe hidradenitis
suppurativa with TNF-α inhibitors: a systematic review. J Dermatolog Treat. 2013;24(5):392-
404.
34. Dejaco C, Singh YP, Perel P, et al. 2015 Recommendations for the management of polymyalgia
rheumatica: a European League Against Rheumatism/American College of Rheumatology
Collaborative Initiative. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2015;67(10):2569-2580.
35. Corrao S, Pistone G, Scaglione R, et al. Fast recovery with etanercept in patients affected by
polymyalgia rheumatica and decompensated diabetes: a case-series study. Clin Rheumatol.
2009;28:89-92.
36. Catanoso MG, Macchioni P, Boiardi L, et al. Treatment of refractory polymyalgia rheumatica with
etanercept: an open pilot study. Arthritis Rheum. 2007;57:1514-1519.
37. Kreiner F, Galbo H. Effect of etanercept in polymyalgia rheumatica: a randomized controlled trial.
Arthritis Res Ther. 2010;12(5):R176.
38. Baughman RP, Lower EE, Bradley DA, et al. Etanercept for refractory ocular sarcoidosis: results
of a double-blind randomized trial. Chest. 2005;128:1062-1047.
39. Utz JP, Limper AH, Kalra S, et al. Etanercept for the treatment of state II and III progressive
pulmonary sarcoidosis. Chest. 2003;124:177-185.
40. Amin EN, Closser DR, Crouser ED. Current best practice in the management of pulmonary and
systemic sarcoidosis. Ther Adv Respir Dis. 2014;8(4):111-132.
41. Mukhtyar C, Guillevin L, Cid MC, et al. EULAR recommendations for the management of large
vessel vasculitis. Ann Rheum Dis. 2009;68(3):318-323.
42. Osman M1, Pagnoux C2, Dryden DM, et al. The role of biological agents in the management of
large vessel vasculitis (LVV): a systematic review and meta-analysis. PLoS One. 2014 Dec
17;9(12):e115026.
43. Martínez-Taboada VM, Rodríguez-Valverde V, Carreño L, et al. A double-blind placebo controlled
trial of etanercept in patients with giant cell arteritis and corticosteroid side effects. Ann Rheum
Dis. 2008;67:625-630.
44. Molloy ES, Langford CA, Clark TM, et al. Anti-tumour necrosis factor therapy in patients with
refractory Takayasu arteritis: long-term follow-up. Ann Rheum Dis. 2008;67:1567-1569.
45. Wegener's Granulomatosis Etanercept Trial (WGET) Research Group. Etanercept plus standard
therapy for Wegener's granulomatosis. N Engl J Med. 2005;352:351-361.
46. The NCCN Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation (HCT) (Version 2.2022 – September 28, 2022). ©
2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. Available at: http://www.nccn.org. Accessed
on October 16, 2022.
47. Onel KB, Horton DB, Lovell DJ, et al. 2021 American College of Rheumatology guideline for the
treatment of juvenile idiopathic arthritis: therapeutic approaches for oligoarthritis,
temporomandibular joint arthritis, and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Arthritis Rheumatol.
2022;74(4):553-569.
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
HISTORY
Type of Summary of Changes Review
Revision Date
Annual No criteria changes. 10/18/2023
Revision
Selected Plaque Psoriasis: For a patient currently taking an etanercept 03/27/2024
Revision product, the timeframe for established on therapy was changed from
90 days to 3 months.
Behcet’s Disease: For a patient currently taking an etanercept
product, the timeframe for established on therapy was changed from
90 days to 3 months.
Selected Ankylosing Spondylitis: For initial approvals, a requirement that 09/11/2024
Revision the patient is ≥ 18 years of age was added.
Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis: For initial approvals, a requirement
that the patient is ≥ 2 years of age was added.
Plaque Psoriasis: In the Note, psoralen plus ultraviolet A light
(PUVA) was removed from the examples of traditional systemic
therapies. An additional Note was added that a 3-month trial of
PUVA counts as a traditional systemic therapy.
Psoriatic Arthritis: For initial approvals, a requirement that the
patient is ≥ 18 years of age was added.
Rheumatoid Arthritis: For initial approvals, a requirement that the
patient is ≥ 18 years of age was added.
Behcet’s Disease: For initial approvals, a requirement that the
patient is ≥ 2 years of age was added.
Graft-vs-Host Disease: For initial approvals, a requirement that
the patient is ≥ 6 years of age was added.
Pyoderma Gangrenosum: For initial approvals, a requirement that
the patient is ≥ 18 years of age was added.
Spondyloarthritis, Other Subtypes: For initial approvals, a
requirement that the patient is ≥ 18 years of age was added.
Still’s Disease: For initial approvals, a requirement that the patient
is ≥ 18 years of age was added.
Conditions Not Covered
: Concurrent use with a Biologic or with a Targeted Synthetic Oral
Small Molecule Drug was changed to as listed (previously oral small
molecule drug was listed as Disease-Modifying Antirheumatic Drug).
Annual Psoriatic Arthritis: For initial approval, a requirement that the 09/25/2024
Revision patient is ≥ 18 years of age was changed to ≥ 2 years of age.
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
APPENDIX
Mechanism of Action Examples of Indications*
Biologics
Adalimumab SC Products (Humira®, Inhibition of TNF AS, CD, JIA, PsO, PsA, RA, UC
biosimilars)
Cimzia® (certolizumab pegol SC Inhibition of TNF AS, CD, JIA, nr-axSpA, PsO,
injection) PsA, RA
Etanercept SC Products (Enbrel®, Inhibition of TNF AS, JIA, PsO, PsA, RA
biosimilars)
Infliximab IV Products (Remicade®, Inhibition of TNF AS, CD, PsO, PsA, RA, UC
biosimilars)
Zymfentra® (infliximab-dyyb SC Inhibition of TNF CD, UC
injection)
Simponi®, Simponi Aria® (golimumab Inhibition of TNF SC formulation: AS, PsA, RA,
SC injection, golimumab IV infusion) UC
IV formulation: AS, PJIA,
PsA, RA
Tocilizumab Products (Actemra® IV, Inhibition of IL-6 SC formulation: PJIA, RA,
biosimilar; Actemra SC, biosimilar) SJIA
IV formulation: PJIA, RA,
SJIA
Kevzara® (sarilumab SC injection) Inhibition of IL-6 RA
Orencia® (abatacept IV infusion, T-cell costimulation SC formulation: JIA, PSA, RA
abatacept SC injection) modulator IV formulation: JIA, PsA, RA
Rituximab IV Products (Rituxan®, CD20-directed cytolytic RA
biosimilars) antibody
Kineret® (anakinra SC injection) Inhibition of IL-1 JIA^, RA
Omvoh® (mirikizumab IV infusion, SC Inhibition of IL-23 UC
injection)
Stelara® (ustekinumab SC injection, Inhibition of IL-12/23 SC formulation: CD, PsO,
ustekinumab IV infusion) PsA, UC
IV formulation: CD, UC
Siliq® (brodalumab SC injection) Inhibition of IL-17 PsO
Cosentyx® (secukinumab SC injection; Inhibition of IL-17A SC formulation: AS, ERA, nr-
secukinumab IV infusion) axSpA, PsO, PsA
IV formulation: AS, nr-
axSpA, PsA
Taltz® (ixekizumab SC injection) Inhibition of IL-17A AS, nr-axSpA, PsO, PsA
Bimzelx® (bimekizumab-bkzx SC Inhibition of IL- AS, nr-axSpA, PsA, PsO
injection) 17A/17F
Ilumya® (tildrakizumab-asmn SC Inhibition of IL-23 PsO
injection)
Skyrizi® (risankizumab-rzaa SC Inhibition of IL-23 SC formulation: CD, PSA,
injection, risankizumab-rzaa IV infusion) PsO, UC
IV formulation: CD, UC
Tremfya® (guselkumab SC injection, Inhibition of IL-23 SC formulation: PsA, PsO, UC
guselkumab IV infusion) IV formulation: UC
Entyvio® (vedolizumab IV infusion, Integrin receptor CD, UC
vedolizumab SC injection) antagonist
Oral Therapies/Targeted Synthetic Oral Small Molecule Drugs
Otezla® (apremilast tablets) Inhibition of PDE4 PsO, PsA
Cibinqo™ (abrocitinib tablets) Inhibition of JAK AD
pathways
Olumiant® (baricitinib tablets) Inhibition of JAK RA, AA
pathways
Litfulo® (ritlecitinib capsules) Inhibition of JAK AA
pathways
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy
Leqselvi® (deuruxolitinib tablets) Inhibition of JAK AA
pathways
Rinvoq® (upadacitinib extended-release Inhibition of JAK AD, AS, nr-axSpA, RA, PsA,
tablets) pathways UC
Rinvoq® LQ (upadacitinib oral solution) Inhibition of JAK PsA, PJIA
pathways
Sotyktu® (deucravacitinib tablets) Inhibition of TYK2 PsO
Xeljanz® (tofacitinib tablets/oral Inhibition of JAK RA, PJIA, PsA, UC
solution) pathways
Xeljanz® XR (tofacitinib extended- Inhibition of JAK RA, PsA, UC
release tablets) pathways
Zeposia® (ozanimod tablets) Sphingosine 1 UC
phosphate receptor
modulator
Velsipity® (etrasimod tablets) Sphingosine 1 UC
phosphate receptor
modulator
* Not an all-inclusive list of indications. Refer to the prescribing information for the respective agent
for FDA-approved indications; SC – Subcutaneous; TNF – Tumor necrosis factor; AS – Ankylosing
spondylitis; CD – Crohn’s disease; JIA – Juvenile idiopathic arthritis; PsO – Plaque psoriasis; PsA –
Psoriatic arthritis; RA – Rheumatoid arthritis; UC – Ulcerative colitis; nr-axSpA – Non-radiographic
axial spondyloarthritis; IV – Intravenous, PJIA – Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis; IL –
Interleukin; SJIA – Systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis; ^ Off-label use of Kineret in JIA supported in
guidelines; ERA – Enthesitis-related arthritis; DMARD – Disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; PDE4 –
Phosphodiesterase 4; JAK – Janus kinase; AD – Atopic dermatitis; AA – Alopecia areata; TYK2 –
Tyrosine kinase 2.
"Cigna Companies" refers to operating subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. All products and services are
provided exclusively by or through such operating subsidiaries, including Cigna Health and Life Insurance
Company, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Evernorth Behavioral Health, Inc., Cigna Health
Management, Inc., and HMO or service company subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. © 2024 The Cigna
Group.
18 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Inflammatory Conditions – Etanercept Products Prior
Authorization Policy