PRIOR AUTHORIZATION POLICY
POLICY: Immunologicals − Xolair Prior Authorization Policy
• Xolair® (omalizumab subcutaneous injection − Genentech/Novartis)
REVIEW DATE: 04/23/2025; selected revision 08/06/2025
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
THE FOLLOWING COVERAGE POLICY APPLIES TO HEALTH BENEFIT PLANS ADMINISTERED BY CIGNA COMPANIES. CERTAIN CIGNA
COMPANIES AND/OR LINES OF BUSINESS ONLY PROVIDE UTILIZATION REVIEW SERVICES TO CLIENTS AND DO NOT MAKE COVERAGE
DETERMINATIONS. REFERENCES TO STANDARD BENEFIT PLAN LANGUAGE AND COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS DO NOT APPLY TO THOSE
CLIENTS. COVERAGE POLICIES ARE INTENDED TO PROVIDE GUIDANCE IN INTERPRETING CERTAIN STANDARD BENEFIT PLANS
ADMINISTERED BY CIGNA COMPANIES. PLEASE NOTE, THE TERMS OF A CUSTOMER'S PARTICULAR BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT [GROUP
SERVICE AGREEMENT, EVIDENCE OF COVERAGE, CERTIFICATE OF COVERAGE, SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION (SPD) OR SIMILAR PLAN
DOCUMENT] MAY DIFFER SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THE STANDARD BENEFIT PLANS UPON WHICH THESE COVERAGE POLICIES ARE BASED. FOR
EXAMPLE, A CUSTOMER'S BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT MAY CONTAIN A SPECIFIC EXCLUSION RELATED TO A TOPIC ADDRESSED IN A COVERAGE
POLICY. IN THE EVENT OF A CONFLICT, A CUSTOMER'S BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT ALWAYS SUPERSEDES THE INFORMATION IN THE
COVERAGE POLICIES. IN THE ABSENCE OF A CONTROLLING FEDERAL OR STATE COVERAGE MANDATE, BENEFITS ARE ULTIMATELY
DETERMINED BY THE TERMS OF THE APPLICABLE BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT. COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS IN EACH SPECIFIC INSTANCE
REQUIRE CONSIDERATION OF 1) THE TERMS OF THE APPLICABLE BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT IN EFFECT ON THE DATE OF SERVICE; 2) ANY
APPLICABLE LAWS/REGULATIONS; 3) ANY RELEVANT COLLATERAL SOURCE MATERIALS INCLUDING COVERAGE POLICIES AND; 4) THE
SPECIFIC FACTS OF THE PARTICULAR SITUATION. EACH COVERAGE REQUEST SHOULD BE REVIEWED ON ITS OWN MERITS. MEDICAL
DIRECTORS ARE EXPECTED TO EXERCISE CLINICAL JUDGMENT WHERE APPROPRIATE AND HAVE DISCRETION IN MAKING INDIVIDUAL
COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS. WHERE COVERAGE FOR CARE OR SERVICES DOES NOT DEPEND ON SPECIFIC CIRCUMSTANCES,
REIMBURSEMENT WILL ONLY BE PROVIDED IF A REQUESTED SERVICE(S) IS SUBMITTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RELEVANT CRITERIA
OUTLINED IN THE APPLICABLE COVERAGE POLICY, INCLUDING COVERED DIAGNOSIS AND/OR PROCEDURE CODE(S). REIMBURSEMENT IS
NOT ALLOWED FOR SERVICES WHEN BILLED FOR CONDITIONS OR DIAGNOSES THAT ARE NOT COVERED UNDER THIS COVERAGE POLICY
(SEE "CODING INFORMATION" BELOW). WHEN BILLING, PROVIDERS MUST USE THE MOST APPROPRIATE CODES AS OF THE EFFECTIVE
DATE OF THE SUBMISSION. CLAIMS SUBMITTED FOR SERVICES THAT ARE NOT ACCOMPANIED BY COVERED CODE(S) UNDER THE APPLICABLE
COVERAGE POLICY WILL BE DENIED AS NOT COVERED. COVERAGE POLICIES RELATE EXCLUSIVELY TO THE ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH
BENEFIT PLANS. COVERAGE POLICIES ARE NOT RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TREATMENT AND SHOULD NEVER BE USED AS TREATMENT
GUIDELINES. IN CERTAIN MARKETS, DELEGATED VENDOR GUIDELINES MAY BE USED TO SUPPORT MEDICAL NECESSITY AND OTHER
COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS.
CIGNA NATIONAL FORMULARY COVERAGE:
OVERVIEW
Xolair, an anti-immunoglobulin (Ig)E monoclonal antibody, is indicated for the
following uses:1
• Asthma, in patients ≥ 6 years of age with moderate to severe persistent
disease who have a positive skin test or in vitro reactivity to a perennial
aeroallergen and whose symptoms are inadequately controlled with inhaled
corticosteroids (ICSs). Xolair has been shown to decrease the incidence of
asthma exacerbations in these patients. Limitations of Use: Xolair is not
indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm or status asthmaticus. It is also
not indicated for the treatment of other allergic conditions.
• Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP), as add-on
maintenance treatment in patients ≥ 18 years of age with an inadequate
response to nasal corticosteroids.
Page 1 of 13 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Immunologicals ( Xolair Prior Authorization Policy
• Chronic spontaneous urticaria, in patients ≥ 12 years of age who remain
symptomatic despite H antihistamine treatment. Limitation of Use: Xolair is
1
not indicated for the treatment of other forms of urticaria.
• IgE-mediated food allergy, in patients ≥ 1 year of age, for the reduction of
allergic reactions (Type I), including anaphylaxis, that may occur with
accidental exposure to one or more foods. Xolair is to be used in conjunction
with food allergen avoidance. Limitation of Use: Xolair is not indicated for the
emergency treatment of allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis.
Dosing of Xolair for the treatment of asthma or nasal polyps is based on body weight
and the serum total IgE level measured before the start of treatment.1 Dosing for
these indications is only provided for patients with a pretreatment serum IgE level ≥
30 IU/mL. Dosing of Xolair in patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria is not
dependent on serum IgE level or body weight.
Clinical Efficacy
Timing of efficacy assessments varied by indication across the numerous pivotal
studies in which Xolair demonstrated benefit. In the majority of the asthma trials,
efficacy with Xolair was assessed as early as 16 weeks.1-11 In chronic spontaneous
urticaria, one of the studies included a 12-week double-blind treatment period, while
the other was longer with 24 weeks of double-blind treatment.12,13 Across both
studies evaluating Xolair in nasal polyps, efficacy was evaluated at Week 24.14
Patients continued treatment with intranasal corticosteroids throughout the study.
In the pivotal study of Xolair for food allergy, patients were required to have a positive
skin prick test response to a food and to have a positive IgE test (blood test) to
food.15 Patients were provided with an epinephrine auto-injector throughout the
study.
Guidelines
Asthma Guidelines
The Global Initiative for Asthma Global Strategy for Asthma Management and
Prevention (2025) proposes a step-wise approach to asthma treatment.16 Xolair is
listed as an option for add-on therapy in patients ≥ 6 years of age with severe allergic
asthma. Severe asthma is defined as asthma that is uncontrolled despite adherence
to optimized high-dose ICS/long-acting beta -agonist (LABA) therapy or that worsens
2
when high-dose treatment is decreased. Allergy-driven symptoms and childhood-
onset asthma may predict a good asthma response to Xolair.
According to the European Respiratory Society/American Thoracic Society guidelines
(2014; updated in 2020), severe asthma is defined as asthma which requires
treatment with a high-dose ICS in addition to a second controller medication (and/or
systemic corticosteroids) to prevent it from becoming uncontrolled, or asthma which
remains uncontrolled despite this therapy.17,18 Uncontrolled asthma is defined as
asthma that worsens upon tapering of high-dose ICS or systemic corticosteroids or
asthma that meets one of the following four criteria:
1) Poor symptom control: Asthma Control Questionnaire consistently ≥ 1.5 or
Asthma Control Test < 20;
9 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals ( Xolair Prior Authorization Policy
2) Frequent severe exacerbations: two or more bursts of systemic corticosteroids
in the previous year;
3) Serious exacerbations: at least one hospitalization, intensive care unit stay,
or mechanical ventilation in the previous year;
4) Airflow limitation: forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV ) < 80%
1
predicted after appropriate bronchodilator withholding.
Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps Guidelines
The Joint Task Force on Practice Parameters (JTFPP) published a focused guideline
update for the medical management of CRSwNP (2023), which updated
recommendations regarding intranasal corticosteroids and biologic therapies.20
Intranasal corticosteroids are recommended for the treatment of CRSwNP. Use of
biologics (e.g., Xolair) are also recommended. However, in patients who derived a
sufficient benefit from other therapies such as intranasal corticosteroids, surgery, or
aspirin therapy after desensitization, biologics may not be preferred. Conversely,
biologics may be preferred over other medical treatment options in patients who
continue to have a high burden of disease despite receiving at least 4 weeks of
treatment with an intranasal corticosteroid.
The diagnosis of CRSwNP was not addressed in this focused guideline update.
Previous guidelines have noted that the presence of two or more signs and symptoms
of chronic rhinosinusitis (e.g., rhinorrhea, postnasal drainage, anosmia, nasal
congestion, facial pain, headache, fever, cough, and purulent discharge) that persist
for an extended period of time makes the diagnosis of chronic rhinosinusitis likely.21-
24 However, this requires confirmation of sinonasal inflammation, which can either
be done via direct visualization or computed tomography (CT) scan. Oral
corticosteroids and surgical intervention were not specifically addressed in this
update. Prior guidelines recommend short courses of oral corticosteroid as needed
and consideration of surgical removal as an adjunct to medical therapy in patients
with CRSwNP that is not responsive or is poorly responsive to medical therapy.21,22,24
Chronic Spontaneous Urticaria Guidelines
Guidelines for the definition, classification, diagnosis, and management of urticaria
have been published by the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical
Immunology/Global Allergy and Asthma European Network/European Dermatology
Forum/Asia Pacific Association of Allergy, Asthma and Clinical Immunology (2022).19
The American Academy of Dermatology was involved in the development of these
guidelines and endorses their recommendations. Chronic spontaneous urticaria is
defined as the appearance of wheals, angioedema, or both for > 6 weeks due to
known or unknown causes. Signs and symptoms may be present daily/almost daily
or have an intermittent recurrent course. Second generation H -antihistamines taken
1
regularly are the recommended first-line treatment for all types of urticaria following
elimination of possible underlying causes. If standard doses do not eliminate urticaria
signs and symptoms, the dose of the antihistamine should be increased up to 4-fold.
If symptoms persist following 2 to 4 weeks of antihistamine therapy, the addition of
Xolair may be considered. For patients with refractory chronic urticaria, the addition
of Xolair may be considered. Short courses of rescue systemic corticosteroids are
9 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals ( Xolair Prior Authorization Policy
recommended for treatment of patients with acute exacerbations of chronic urticaria.
However, guidelines recommend against the long-term use of systemic steroids.
Food Allergy Guidelines
Consensus-based guidance on the use and implementation of Xolair as food allergy
treatment from the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology Adverse
Reactions to Foods Committee (2025) note that Xolair is a potential treatment option
which can be offered to patients with one or more IgE-mediated food allergies.25 All
candidates for Xolair therapy for food allergy should have a total IgE level that allows
for Xolair dosing (i.e., > 30 to < 1,850 IU/mL). It is also recommended that patients
have evidence of sensitization determined via either (or both) a positive food-specific
skin prick test or measurement of a serum-specific IgE level to a food that would
indicate a high likelihood of having an IgE-mediated reaction within the context of
the patient’s history. Both skin testing and specific IgE testing are not required as
long as sensitization can be documented to one or more foods.
POLICY STATEMENT
Prior Authorization is recommended for prescription benefit coverage of Xolair. All
approvals are provided for the duration noted below. In cases where approval is
authorized in months, 1 month is equal to 30 days. Because of the specialized skills
required for evaluation and diagnosis of patients treated with Xolair, as well as the
monitoring required for adverse events and long-term efficacy, approval requires
Xolair to be prescribed by or in consultation with a physician who specializes in the
condition being treated.
• Xolair® (omalizumab subcutaneous injection - Genentech/Novartis)
is(are) covered as medically necessary when the following criteria is(are)
met for FDA-approved indication(s) or other uses with supportive evidence
(if applicable):
FDA-Approved Indications
1. Asthma. Approve Xolair for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of the
following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 4 months if the patient meets ALL of the
following (i, ii, iii, iv, v, and vi):
i. Patient is ≥ 6 years of age; AND
ii. Patient has a baseline immunoglobulin E (IgE) level ≥ 30 IU/mL; AND
Note: “Baseline” is defined as prior to receiving any treatment with Xolair
or another monoclonal antibody therapy that may lower IgE levels (e.g.,
Dupixent [dupilumab subcutaneous injection], Tezspire [tezepelumab-
ekko subcutaneous injection]).
9 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals ( Xolair Prior Authorization Policy
iii. Patient has a baseline positive skin test or in vitro test (i.e., a blood test)
for allergen-specific immunoglobulin E (IgE) for one or more perennial
aeroallergens and/or for one or more seasonal aeroallergens; AND
Note: “Baseline” is defined as prior to receiving any Xolair or another
monoclonal antibody therapy that may interfere with allergen testing
(e.g., Dupixent and Tezspire). Examples of perennial aeroallergens are
house dust mite, animal dander, cockroach, feathers, and mold spores.
Examples of seasonal aeroallergens are grass, pollen, and weeds.
iv. Patient has received at least 3 consecutive months of combination therapy
with BOTH of the following (a and b):
a) An inhaled corticosteroid; AND
b) At least one additional asthma controller or asthma maintenance
medication; AND
Note: Examples of additional asthma controller or asthma
maintenance medications are inhaled long-acting beta -agonists,
2
inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonists, and monoclonal antibody
therapies for asthma (e.g., Xolair, Cinqair [reslizumab intravenous
infusion], Dupixent, Fasenra [benralizumab subcutaneous injection],
Nucala [mepolizumab subcutaneous injection], and Tezspire. Use of a
combination inhaler containing both an inhaled corticosteroid and
additional asthma controller/maintenance medication(s) would fulfil
the requirement for both criteria a and b.
v. Patient has asthma that is uncontrolled or was uncontrolled at baseline as
defined by ONE of the following (a, b, c, d, or e):
Note: “Baseline” is defined as prior to receiving Xolair or another
monoclonal antibody therapy for asthma. Examples of monoclonal
antibody therapies for asthma include Cinqair, Dupixent, Fasenra, Nucala,
Tezspire, and Xolair.
a) Patient experienced two or more asthma exacerbations requiring
treatment with systemic corticosteroids in the previous year; OR
b) Patient experienced one or more asthma exacerbation(s) requiring a
hospitalization, an emergency department visit, or an urgent care visit
in the previous year; OR
c) Patient has a forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV ) < 80%
1
predicted; OR
d) Patient has an FEV /forced vital capacity (FVC) < 0.80; OR
1
e) Patient has asthma that worsens upon tapering of oral corticosteroid
therapy; AND
vi. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist,
immunologist, or pulmonologist; OR
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Xolair. Approve Xolair for 1 year if the patient
meets ALL of the following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient has already received at least 4 months of therapy with Xolair;
AND
Note: A patient who has received < 4 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with Xolair should be considered under criterion 1A
(Asthma, Initial Therapy).
9 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals ( Xolair Prior Authorization Policy
ii. Patient continues to receive therapy with one inhaled corticosteroid or one
inhaled corticosteroid-containing combination inhaler; AND
iii. Patient has responded to therapy as determined by the prescriber.
Note: Examples of a response to Xolair therapy are decreased asthma
exacerbations; decreased asthma symptoms; decreased hospitalizations,
emergency department, urgent care, or medical clinic visits due to
asthma; decreased reliever/rescue medication use; and improved lung
function parameters.
2. Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps. Approve Xolair for the duration
noted if the patient meets ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the
following (i, ii, iii, iv, v, vi, and vii):
i. Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND
ii. Patient has chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps as evidenced by direct
examination, endoscopy, or sinus computed tomography (CT) scan; AND
iii. Patient has experienced two or more of the following symptoms for at
least 6 months: nasal congestion, nasal obstruction, nasal discharge,
and/or reduction/loss of smell; AND
iv. Patient has a baseline immunoglobulin E (IgE) level ≥ 30 IU/mL; AND
Note: “Baseline” is defined as prior to receiving any treatment with Xolair
or another monoclonal antibody therapy that may lower IgE levels (e.g.,
Dupixent [dupilumab subcutaneous injection], Tezspire [tezepelumab-
ekko subcutaneous injection]).
v. Patient meets BOTH of the following (a and b):
a) Patient has received at least 4 weeks of therapy with an intranasal
corticosteroid; AND
b) Patient will continue to receive therapy with an intranasal
corticosteroid concomitantly with Xolair; AND
vi. Patient meets ONE of the following (a, b, or c):
a) Patient has received at least one course of treatment with a systemic
corticosteroid for 5 days or more within the previous 2 years; OR
b) Patient has a contraindication to systemic corticosteroid therapy; OR
c) Patient has had prior surgery for nasal polyps; AND
vii. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist,
immunologist, or an otolaryngologist (ear, nose, and throat [ENT]
physician specialist); OR
B) Patient is currently receiving Xolair. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets
ALL of the following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient has already received at least 6 months of therapy with Xolair;
AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with Xolair should be considered under criterion 2A
(Nasal Polyps, Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient continues to receive therapy with an intranasal corticosteroid;
AND
iii. Patient has responded to Xolair therapy as determined by the prescriber.
9 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals ( Xolair Prior Authorization Policy
Note: Examples of a response to Xolair therapy are reduced nasal polyp
size, improved nasal congestion, reduced sinus opacification, decreased
sino-nasal symptoms, and/or improved sense of smell.
3. Chronic Spontaneous Urticaria (Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria). Approve
Xolair for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the
following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient is ≥ 12 years of age; AND
ii. Patient has/had urticaria for > 6 weeks (prior to treatment with Xolair),
with symptoms present > 3 days per week despite daily non-sedating H
1
antihistamine therapy with doses that have been titrated up to a
maximum of four times the standard FDA-approved dose; AND
Note: Examples of non-sedating H antihistamine therapy are cetirizine,
1
desloratadine, fexofenadine, levocetirizine, and loratadine.
iii. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist,
immunologist, or dermatologist; OR
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Xolair. Approve Xolair for 1 year if the patient
meets BOTH of the following (i and ii):
i. Patient has already received at least 6 months of therapy with Xolair;
AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with Xolair should be considered under criterion 3A
(Chronic Spontaneous Urticaria, Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient has experienced a beneficial clinical response, defined by ONE of
the following (a, b, or c):
a) Decreased itch severity; OR
b) Decreased number of hives; OR
c) Decreased size of hives.
4. Immunoglobulin (Ig)E-Mediated Food Allergy. Approve Xolair for 1 year if
the patient meets ALL of the following (A, B, C, D, E, F, and G):
A) Patient is ≥ 1 year of age; AND
B) Patient has a baseline immunoglobulin (Ig)E level ≥ 30 IU/mL; AND
Note: “Baseline” is defined as prior to receiving any treatment with Xolair or
another monoclonal antibody therapy that may lower IgE levels (e.g., Dupixent
[dupilumab subcutaneous injection], Tezspire [tezepelumab-ekko
subcutaneous injection]).
C) Patient meets ONE of the following(i or ii):
i. Patient has a positive skin prick test response to one or more foods; OR
ii. Patient has a positive in vitro test (i.e., a blood test) for IgE to one or more
foods; AND
D) According to the prescriber, the patient has a history of an allergic reaction to
a food that met each of the following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient demonstrated signs and symptoms of a significant systemic allergic
reaction; AND
9 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals ( Xolair Prior Authorization Policy
Note: Signs and symptoms of a significant systemic allergic reaction
include hives, swelling, wheezing, hypotension, and gastrointestinal
symptoms.
ii. This reaction occurred within a short period of time following a known
ingestion of the food; AND
iii. The prescriber deemed this reaction significant enough to require a
prescription for an epinephrine self-administered injectable or nasal
product; AND
Note: Examples of epinephrine self-administered injectable and nasal
products include EpiPen, EpiPen Jr., Auvi-Q, generic epinephrine auto-
injectors, and Neffy.
E) Patient has been prescribed an epinephrine self-administered injectable or
nasal product; AND
Note: Examples of epinephrine self-administered injectable and nasal products
include EpiPen, EpiPen Jr., Auvi-Q, generic epinephrine auto-injectors, and
Neffy.
F) According to the prescriber, Xolair will be used in conjunction with a food
allergen-avoidant diet; AND
G) The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist or
immunologist.
CONDITIONS NOT COVERED
• Xolair® (omalizumab subcutaneous injection - Genentech/Novartis)
is(are) considered not medically necessary for ANY other use(s) including
the following (this list may not be all inclusive; criteria will be updated as
new published data are available):
1. Atopic Dermatitis. One single-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial,
Atopic Dermatitis Anti-IgE Pediatric Trial (ADAPT) evaluated the efficacy of Xolair
in patients 4 to 19 years of age with severe atopic dermatitis (n = 62).26 After 24
weeks of therapy, the difference in the objective Scoring Atopic Dermatitis
[SCORAD] index with Xolair vs. placebo was -6.9 (P = 0.01). This was statistically
significant; however, the clinical significance is unknown. Quality of life
measurements were also improved with Xolair. Smaller studies have not shown
benefit and case studies have yielded mixed results.26-28 Additional larger, well-
designed clinical trials are needed to determine if Xolair has a role in the treatment
of atopic dermatitis. Atopic dermatitis guidelines from the American Academy
Dermatology (2023) note that there are insufficient data to make a
recommendation regarding the use of Xolair.29
2. Concurrent use of Xolair with another Monoclonal Antibody Therapy. The
efficacy and safety of Xolair used in combination with other monoclonal antibody
therapies have not been established. There are very limited case reports
describing the combined use of Nucala and Xolair for severe asthma as well as
off-label indications.30-35 One limited case series also reported the use of Xolair
9 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals ( Xolair Prior Authorization Policy
and Dupixent in patients with asthma or chronic idiopathic urticaria.36 Further
investigation is warranted.
Note: Monoclonal antibody therapies are Adbry® (tralokinumab-ldrm
subcutaneous injection), Cinqair® (reslizumab intravenous infusion), Dupixent®
(dupilumab subcutaneous injection), Ebglyss™ (lebrikizumab-lbkz SC injection),
Fasenra® (benralizumab subcutaneous injection), Nemluvio® (nemolizumab-ilto
SC injection), Nucala® (mepolizumab subcutaneous injection), or Teszpire®
(tezepelumab-ekko subcutaneous injection).
3. Eosinophilic Gastroenteritis, Eosinophilic Esophagitis, or Eosinophilic
Colitis. There are limited and conflicting data from very small studies and case
series on the use of Xolair for the treatment of eosinophilic gastrointestinal
conditions.37 Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of eosinophilic
esophagitis from the American College of Gastroenterology (2025) recommend
against the use of Xolair in patients with this condition.
4. Latex Allergy in Health Care Workers with Occupational Latex Allergy. A
small European study assessed the effects of Xolair treatment in health care
workers (n = 18) with occupational latex allergy.38 Xolair use in these patients
resulted in a reduction in mean conjunctival challenge test scores as compared
with placebo-treated patients after 16-weeks of therapy. Also, three patients who
did not respond to Xolair treatment during the double-blind phase responded
during the 16-week open-label phase. Thus, the overall ocular response rate for
all patients in the open-label phase was 93.8% (n = 15/16). Also 11 of 15 patients
in the open-label phase had a negative response to a latex glove challenge test
(4 patients had a mild response). Well-controlled trials are needed.
9 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals ( Xolair Prior Authorization Policy
REFERENCES
1. Xolair® subcutaneous injection [prescribing information]. South San Francisco, CA and East
Hanover, NJ: Genentech and Novartis; February 2024.
2. Busse W, Corren J, Lanier BQ, et al. Omalizumab, anti-IgE recombinant humanized monoclonal
antibody, for the treatment of severe allergic asthma. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2001;108(2):184-
190.
3. Finn A, Gross G, van Bavel J, et al. Omalizumab improves asthma-related quality of life in patients
with severe allergic asthma. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2003;111(2):278-284.
4. Lanier BQ, Corren J, Lumry W, et al. Omalizumab is effective in the long-term control of severe
allergic asthma. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2003;91:154-159.
5. Bousquet J, Wenzel S, Holgate S, et al. Predicting response to omalizumab, an anti-IgE antibody,
in patients with allergic asthma. Chest. 2004;125(4):1378-1386.
6. Solèr M, Matz J, Townley R, et al. The anti-IgE antibody omalizumab reduces exacerbations and
steroid requirement in allergic asthmatics. Eur Respir J. 2001;18:254-261.
7. Buhl R, Solèr M, Matz J, et al. Omalizumab provides long-term control in patients with moderate-
to-severe allergic asthma. Eur Respir J. 2002;20:73-78.
8. Buhl R, Hanf G, Solèr M, et al. The anti-IgE antibody omalizumab improves asthma-related quality
of life in patients with allergic asthma. Eur Respir J. 2002;20:1088-1094.
9. Holgate S, Chuchalin A, Herbert J, et al. Efficacy and safety of a recombinant anti-immunoglobulin
E antibody (omalizumab) in severe allergic asthma. Clin Exp Allergy. 2004;34:632-638.
10. Kulus M, Hebert J, Garcia E, et al. Omalizumab in children with inadequately controlled severe
allergic (IgE-mediated) asthma. Curr Med Res Opin. 2010;26:1285-1293.
11. Milgrom H, Berger W, Nayak A, et al. Treatment of childhood asthma with anti-immunoglobulin E
antibody (omalizumab). Pediatrics. 2001;108(2).
12. Saini SS, Bindslev-Jensen C, Maurer M, et al. Efficacy and safety of omalizumab in patients with
chronic idiopathic/spontaneous urticaria who remain symptomatic on H1 antihistamines: a
randomized, placebo-controlled study. J Invest Dermatol. 2015;135:67-75.
13. Maurer M, Rosen K, Hsieh HJ, et al. Omalizumab for the treatment of chronic idiopathic or
spontaneous urticaria. N Engl J Med. 2013;368:924-935.
14. Gevaert P, Omachi TA, Corren J, et al. Efficacy and safety of omalizumab in nasal polyposis; 2
randomized phase 3 trials. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2020;146(3):595-605.
15. Wood RA, Togias A, Sicherer SH, et al. Omalizumab for the treatment of multiple food allergies. N
Engl J Med. 2024;390(10):889-899..
16. Global Initiative for Asthma. Global strategy for asthma management and prevention. Updated
2025. Available at: http://www.ginasthma.org. Accessed on: July 22, 2025.
17. Chung KF, Wenzel SE, Brozek JL, et al. International ERS/ATS guidelines on definition, evaluation
and treatment of severe asthma. Eur Respir J. 2014;43:343-373.
18. Holguin F, Cardet JC, Chung KF, et al. Management of severe asthma: a European Respiratory
Society/American Thoracic Society Guideline. Eur Respir J. 2020;55:1900588.
19. Zuberbier T, Abdul Latiff AH, Abuzakouk M, et al. The international
EAACI/GA2LEN/EuroGuiDerm/APAAACI guideline for the definition, classification, diagnosis, and
management of urticaria. Allergy. 2022;73:734-766.
20. Rank MA, Chu DK, Bognanni A, et al. Joint Task Force on Practice Parameters GRADE guidelines for
the medical management of chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis. J Allergy Clin Immunol.
2023;151(2):386-398.
21. Peters AT, Spector S, Hsu J, et al. Diagnosis and management of rhinosinusitis: a practice parameter
update. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2014:347-385.
22. Dykewicz MS, Wallace DV, Baroody F, et al. Treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis: an evidenced-
based focused 2017 guideline update. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2017;119(6):489-511.
23. Joint Task Force on Practice Parameters: American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology
and the American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology. Rhinitis 2020: a practice parameter
update. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2020;146:721-767.
24. Rosenfeld RM, Piccirillo JF, Chandrasekhar SS, et al. Clinical practice guideline (update): adult
sinusitis. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2015;152(2S):S1-S39.
25. Anagnostou A, Bird JA, Chinthraja S, et al. The use and implementation of omalizumab as food
allergy treatment: Consensus-based guidance and Work Group Report of the Adverse Reactions to
9 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals ( Xolair Prior Authorization Policy
Foods Committee of the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. J Allergy Clin
Immunol. 2025;155(1):62-69.
26. Chan S, Cornelius V, Cro S, et al. Treatment effect of omalizumab on severe pediatric atopic
dermatitis: the ADAPT randomized clinical trial. JAMA Pediatr. 2019;174(1):29-37.
27. Holm JG, Agner T, Sand C, et al. Omalizumab for atopic dermatitis: case series and a systematic
review of the literature. Int J Dermatol. 2017;56(1):18-26.
28. Wang HH, Li YC, Huang YC, et al. Efficacy of omalizumab in patients with atopic dermatitis: a
systematic review and meta-analysis. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2016;138(6):1719-1722.
29. Davis DMR, Drucker AM, Alikhan A, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of atopic dermatitis
in adults with phototherapy and systemic therapies. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2024;90(2):E43-E56.
30. Baccelli A, Kocwin M, Parazzini EM, et al. Long-term outcomes of combination biologic therapy in
uncontrolled severe asthma: a case study. J Asthma. 2023;60(5):1050-1053.
31. Altman MC, Lenington J, Bronson S, et al. Combination omalizumab and mepolizumab therapy for
refractory allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis. J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. 2017;5(4):1137-
1139.
32. Han D, Lee JK. Severe asthma with eosinophilic gastroenteritis effectively managed by mepolizumab
and omalizumab. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2018;121(6):742-743.
33. Dedaj R, Unsel L. Case study: a combination of mepolizumab and omalizumab injections for severe
asthma. J Asthma. 2019;56(5):473-474.
34. Matsumoto T, Sakurai Y, Tashima N, et al. Dual biologics for severe asthma and atopic dermatitis:
synopsis of two cases and literature review. Respirol Case Rep. 2023;12(1):e01266.
35. Sezgin ME, Colak M, Caglayan O, et al. Efficacy and mepolizumab and omalizumab combination
therapy in uncontrolled asthma. J Asthma. 2024;61(2):173-175.
36. Gisondi P, Maurelli M, Costanzo A, et al. The combination of dupilumab with other monoclonal
antibodies. Dermatol Ther (Heidelb). 2023;13(1):7-12.
37. Dellon ES, Muir AB, Katzka DA, et al. ACG Clinical Guideline: Diagnosis and Management of
Eosinophilic Esophagitis. Am J Gastroenterol. 2025;120(1):31-59.
38. Leynadier F, Doudou O, Gaouar H, et al. Effect of omalizumab in health care workers with
occupational latex allergy [letter]. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2004;113(2):360-361.
HISTORY
Type of Summary of Changes Review
Revision Date
Annual Conditions Not Covered: Criteria were updated to clarify that use 03/22/2023
Revision of Xolair with another monoclonal antibody therapy is specific to
Cinqair, Fasenra, Nucala, Dupixent, Tezspire, and Adbry.
Selected Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps: Approval condition 02/14/2024
Revision updated from “Nasal Polyps” to “Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal
Polyps”. Duration of the intranasal corticosteroid requirement was
changed from 3 months to 4 weeks.
Early Annual Immunoglobulin (IgE)-Mediated Food Allergy: New approval 03/06/2024
Revision criteria for this indication were added. and
Conditions Not Covered: “Peanut and Other Food Allergies” was 03/07/2024
removed as a Condition Not Recommended for Approval.
Annual Asthma: Leukotriene receptor antagonists were removed as an 03/05/2025
Revision example of additional asthma controller or asthma maintenance
medications.
Immunoglobulin (IgE)-Mediated Food Allergy: Criteria were
updated to require the patient to have either a positive skin prick test
response OR a positive in vitro test (i.e., a blood test) for IgE to one
or more foods. Previously, criteria required the patient to have both
a positive skin prick test response and a positive in vitro test (i.e., a
blood test) for IgE to one or more foods.
Early Annual Chronic Spontaneous Urticaria (Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria): 04/23/2025
Revision Approval condition was updated to “Chronic Spontaneous Urticaria
9 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals ( Xolair Prior Authorization Policy
(Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria)”. Previously, this approval condition was
listed as “Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria (Chronic Spontaneous Urticaria).
The approval duration for this condition was changed from 4 months
to 6 months. Criteria for a patient currently receiving Xolair was
updated to apply to a patient who has already received at least 6
months of therapy with Xolair. Previously, these criteria applied to a
patient who had received at least 4 months of therapy with Xolair.
Criteria for a patient currently receiving Xolair was also updated to
require that the patient has experienced a beneficial clinical response,
defined as either decreased itch severity, decreased number of hives,
or decreased size of hives. Previously, these criteria required the
patient to have responded to therapy as determined by the prescriber.
Selected Immunoglobulin (Ig)E-Mediated Food Allergy: Throughout the 08/06/2025
Revision criteria, references to “epinephrine auto-injectors” were updated to
“epinephrine self-administered injectable or nasal products”. Neffy
was added as an example of an epinephrine self-administered
injectable or nasal product.
"Cigna Companies" refers to operating subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. All products and services are
provided exclusively by or through such operating subsidiaries, including Cigna Health and Life
Insurance Company, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Evernorth Behavioral Health, Inc.,
Cigna Health Management, Inc., and HMO or service company subsidiaries of The Cigna Group.© 2025
The Cigna Group.
9 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals ( Xolair Prior Authorization Policy