PRIOR AUTHORIZATION POLICY
POLICY: Bone Modifiers – Tymlos Prior Authorization Policy
• Tymlos® (abaloparatide subcutaneous injection – Radius)
REVIEW DATE: 10/23/2024
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
The following Coverage Policy applies to health benefit plans administered by Cigna Companies. Certain Cigna
Companies and/or lines of business only provide utilization review services to clients and do not make coverage
determinations. References to standard benefit plan language and coverage determinations do not apply to those
clients. Coverage Policies are intended to provide guidance in interpreting certain standard benefit plans administered
by Cigna Companies. Please note, the terms of a customer's particular benefit plan document [Group Service
Agreement, Evidence of Coverage, Certificate of Coverage, Summary Plan Description (SPD) or similar plan
document] may differ significantly from the standard benefit plans upon which these Coverage Policies are based.
For example, a customer's benefit plan document may contain a specific exclusion related to a topic addressed in a
Coverage Policy. In the event of a conflict, a customer's benefit plan document always supersedes the information in
the Coverage Policies. In the absence of a controlling federal or state coverage mandate, benefits are ultimately
determined by the terms of the applicable benefit plan document. Coverage determinations in each specific instance
require consideration of 1) the terms of the applicable benefit plan document in effect on the date of service; 2) any
applicable laws/regulations; 3) any relevant collateral source materials including Coverage Policies and; 4) the
specific facts of the particular situation. Each coverage request should be reviewed on its own merits. Medical
directors are expected to exercise clinical judgment and have discretion in making individual coverage
determinations. Coverage Policies relate exclusively to the administration of health benefit plans. Coverage Policies
are not recommendations for treatment and should never be used as treatment guidelines. In certain markets,
delegated vendor guidelines may be used to support medical necessity and other coverage determinations.
Cigna National Formulary Coverage:
Overview
Tymlos, a human parathyroid hormone related peptide analog, is indicated for the following
uses:1
• Osteoporosis, treatment of postmenopausal women, at high risk for fracture.
• Osteoporosis, treatment to increase bone density in men, at high risk for
fracture.
Patients at high risk for fracture are defined as those with a history of osteoporotic fracture,
have multiple risk factors for fracture, or have failed or are intolerant to other osteoporosis
therapy.
Guidelines
Guidelines for osteoporosis in postmenopausal women from the Endocrine Society (2019)2
as well as from the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists and the American
College of Endocrinology (2020)3 discuss Tymlos. In general, Tymlos is one of several
alternatives recommended in patients who are at high risk of fracture or in those unable to
utilize oral bisphosphonate therapy. The Bone Health and Osteoporosis clinician guide to
prevent and treat osteoporosis (2022) cites robust reductions in vertebral and non-vertebral
fractures with Tymlos therapy in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis.4
Safety
Page 1 of 6 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Bone Modifiers – Tymlos Prior Authorization Policy
The prescribing information for Tymlos states that the safety and efficacy of Tymlos have
not been evaluated beyond 2 years of therapy. Use of the medication for more than 2 year
during a patient’s lifetime is not recommended. There are limited data evaluating the risk
of osteosarcoma beyond 2 years of Tymlos and/or use of a parathyroid hormone analog.
Avoid use of Tymlos in patients who are at increased baseline risk of osteosarcoma (e.g.,
open epiphyses [pediatric and young adult patients], those with metabolic bone disease,
patients with bone metastases or a history of skeletal malignancies).
POLICY STATEMENT
Prior Authorization is recommended for prescription benefit coverage of Tymlos. All
approvals are provided for the duration noted below. In the approval indication, as
appropriate, an asterisk (*) is noted next to the specified gender. In this context, the
specified gender is defined as follows: men are defined as individuals with the biological
traits of a man, regardless of the individual’s gender identity or gender expression.
• Tymlos® (abaloparatide subcutaneous injection – Radius)
is(are) covered as medically necessary when the following criteria is(are) met for
FDA-approved indication(s) or other uses with supportive evidence (if applicable):
FDA-Approved Indications
1. Osteoporosis Treatment for a Postmenopausal Patient. Approve for up to 2 years
(total) during a patient’s lifetime if the patient meets BOTH of the following (A and B):
Note: For example, a patient who has already received 3 months of treatment with
Tymlos should be approved for a duration of 21 months. This allows for completion of a
maximum of 2 years of therapy during the patient’s lifetime.
A) Patient meets ONE of the following (i, ii, or iii):
i. Patient has had a T-score (current or at any time in the past) at or below -2.5 at
the lumbar spine, femoral neck, total hip and/or 33% (one-third) radius (wrist);
OR
ii. Patient has had an osteoporotic fracture or a fragility fracture; OR
iii. The patient meets BOTH of the following (a and b):
a) Patient has low bone mass; AND
Note: An example of low bone mass includes a T-score (current or at any
time in the past) between -1.0 and -2.5 at the lumbar spine, femoral neck,
total hip, and/or 33% (one-third) radius (wrist).
b) According to the prescriber, patient is at high risk for fracture; AND
B) Patient meets ONE of the following (i, ii, iii, or iv):
i. Patient has tried ibandronate intravenous injection (Boniva) or zoledronic acid
intravenous infusion (Reclast); OR
ii. Patient has tried at least one oral bisphosphonate or oral bisphosphonate-
containing product and meets ONE of the following (a or b):
Note: Examples of oral bisphosphonate products include Fosamax (alendronate
tablets and oral solution), Fosamax Plus D (alendronate/cholecalciferol tablets),
Actonel (risedronate tablets), Atelvia (risedronate delayed-release tablets), and
Boniva (ibandronate tablets).
a) According to the prescriber, patient has experienced inadequate efficacy to
oral bisphosphonate therapy after a trial duration of 12 months; OR
Note: Examples of inadequate efficacy are ongoing and significant loss of
bone mineral density (BMD), lack or a BMD increase, and/or an osteoporotic
fracture or a fragility fracture.
5 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Bone Modifiers – Tymlos Prior Authorization Policy
b) Patient has experienced significant intolerance to an oral bisphosphonate; OR
Note: Examples of significant intolerance include severe gastrointestinal
related adverse events and/or severe musculoskeletal related adverse events.
iii. Patient cannot take an oral bisphosphonate due to ONE of the following (a, b, or
c):
a) Patient cannot swallow or has difficulty swallowing; OR
b) Patient cannot remain in an upright position post oral bisphosphonate
administration; OR
c) Patient has a pre-existing gastrointestinal medical condition; OR
Note: Examples of pre-existing gastrointestinal medical conditions include
esophageal lesions, esophageal ulcers, or abnormalities of the esophagus that
delay esophageal emptying (stricture, achalasia).
iv. Patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
a) According to the prescriber, the patient has severe renal impairment or
chronic kidney disease; OR
Note: An example of severe renal impairment is a creatinine clearance < 35
mL/minute.
b) Patient has had an osteoporotic fracture or a fragility fracture.
2. Osteoporosis Treatment for Men*. Approve for up to 2 years (total) during a
patient’s lifetime if the patient meets BOTH of the following (A and B):
Note: For example, a patient who has already received 3 months of treatment with
Tymlos should be approved for a duration of 21 months. This allows for completion of a
maximum of 2 years of therapy during the patient’s lifetime.
A) Patient meets ONE of the following (i, ii, or iii):
i. Patient has had a T-score (current or at any time in the past) at or below -2.5 at
the lumbar spine, femoral neck, total hip and/or 33% (one-third) radius (wrist);
OR
ii. Patient has had an osteoporotic fracture or a fragility fracture; OR
iii. The patient meets BOTH of the following (a and b):
a) Patient has low bone mass; AND
Note: An example of low bone mass includes a T-score (current or at any
time in the past) between -1.0 and -2.5 at the lumbar spine, femoral neck,
total hip, and/or 33% (one-third) radius (wrist).
b) According to the prescriber, patient is at high risk for fracture; AND
B) Patient meets ONE of the following (i, ii, iii, or iv):
i. Patient has tried zoledronic acid intravenous infusion (Reclast); OR
ii. Patient has tried at least one oral bisphosphonate or oral bisphosphonate-
containing product and meets ONE of the following (a or b):
Note: Examples of oral bisphosphonate products include Fosamax (alendronate
tablets and oral solution), Fosamax Plus D (alendronate/cholecalciferol tablets),
Actonel (risedronate tablets), Atelvia (risedronate delayed-release tablets), and
Boniva (ibandronate tablets).
a) According to the prescriber, patient has experienced inadequate efficacy to oral
bisphosphonate therapy after a trial duration of 12 months; OR
Note: Examples of an inadequate efficacy are ongoing and significant loss of
bone mineral density (BMD), lack or a BMD increase, and/or an osteoporotic
fracture or a fragility fracture.
b) Patient has experienced significant intolerance to an oral bisphosphonate; OR
Note: Examples of significant intolerance include severe gastrointestinal
related adverse events and/or severe musculoskeletal related adverse
events.
5 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Bone Modifiers – Tymlos Prior Authorization Policy
iii. Patient cannot take an oral bisphosphonate due to ONE of the following (a, b, or
c):
a) Patient cannot swallow or has difficulty swallowing; OR
b) Patient cannot remain in an upright position post oral bisphosphonate
administration; OR
c) Patient has a pre-existing gastrointestinal medical condition; OR
Note: Examples of pre-existing gastrointestinal medical conditions include
esophageal lesions, esophageal ulcers, or abnormalities of the esophagus that
delay esophageal emptying (stricture, achalasia).
iv. Patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
a) According to the prescriber, the patient has severe renal impairment or
chronic kidney disease; OR
Note: An example of severe renal impairment is a creatinine clearance < 35
mL/minute.
b) Patient has had an osteoporotic fracture or a fragility fracture.
CONDITIONS NOT COVERED
• Tymlos® (abaloparatide subcutaneous injection – Radius)
is(are) considered experimental, investigational or unproven for ANY other use(s)
including the following (this list may not be all inclusive; criteria will be updated
as new published data are available):
1. Concurrent Use with Other Medications for Osteoporosis.
Note: Examples of medications for osteoporosis that Tymlos should not be given with
include Prolia (denosumab subcutaneous injection), oral bisphosphonates (alendronate,
risedronate, ibandronate), intravenous bisphosphonates (zoledronic acid intravenous
infusion [Reclast], ibandronate intravenous injection), calcitonin nasal spray
(Miacalcin/Fortical), teriparatide subcutaneous injection (Forteo), and Evenity
(romosozumab-aqqg subcutaneous injection). However, this does NOT exclude use of
calcium and/or vitamin D supplements in combination with Tymlos.
2. Osteoporosis Prevention. Tymlos has not been studied in this patient population.
The benefits and risks of building bone with Tymlos in a condition in which substantial
bone loss has not occurred have not been investigated.1
3. Coverage is not recommended for circumstances not listed in the Recommended
Authorization Criteria. Criteria will be updated as new published data are available.
REFERENCES
1. Tymlos® subcutaneous injection [prescribing information]. Boston, MA: Radius;
December 2023.
2. Eastell R, Rosen CJ, Black DM, et al. Pharmacological management of osteoporosis in
postmenopausal women: an Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. J Clin
Endocrinol Metab. 2019;104(5):1595-1622.
3. Camacho PM, Petak SM, Binkley N, et al. American Association of Clinical
Endocrinologists and American College of Endocrinology clinical practice guidelines for
the diagnosis and treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis-2020 update. Endocrin
Pract. 2020;26(Suppl 1):1-46.
4. LeBoff MS, GreenspanSL, Insogna KL, et al. The clinician’s guide to prevention and
treatment of osteoporosis. Osteoporosis Int. 2022;33(10):2049-2102.
5 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Bone Modifiers – Tymlos Prior Authorization Policy
HISTORY
Type of Summary of Changes Review
Revision Date
Annual To comply with standard wording, the phrase “as determined 09/27/2023
Revision by the prescriber” was replaced with “according to the
prescriber”. In addition, the following changes were made:
Osteoporosis – Treatment for Men: The exception that the
patient has had an osteoporotic fracture or a fragility fracture
while receiving oral bisphosphonate therapy was removed.
Instead, this exception was incorporated into a Note that lists
osteoporotic fracture or a fragility fracture as an example of
inadequate efficacy or significant intolerance to a trial of an oral
bisphosphonate or an oral bisphosphonate-containing product.
Femoral fracture was removed as an example of significant
intolerance to an oral bisphosphonate.
Osteoporosis – Treatment for a Postmenopausal Patient:
The exception that the patient has had an osteoporotic fracture
or a fragility fracture while receiving oral bisphosphonate
therapy was removed. Instead, this exception was
incorporated into a Note that lists osteoporotic fracture or a
fragility fracture as an example of inadequate efficacy or
significant intolerance to a trial of an oral bisphosphonate or an
oral bisphosphonate-containing product. Femoral fracture was
removed as an example of significant intolerance to an oral
bisphosphonate.
Annual Osteoporosis Treatment for a Postmenopausal Patient: 10/23/2024
Revision The exception to the requirement for a trial of a bisphosphonate
due to severe renal impairment or chronic kidney disease were
revised. The criteria are now combined and the phrase
“according to the prescriber” was added.
Osteoporosis Treatment for Men: The exception to the
requirement for a trial of a bisphosphonate due to severe renal
impairment or chronic kidney disease were revised. The criteria
are now combined and the phrase “according to the prescriber”
was added.
"Cigna Companies" refers to operating subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. All products and
services are provided exclusively by or through such operating subsidiaries, including Cigna
Health and Life Insurance Company, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Evernorth
Behavioral Health, Inc., Cigna Health Management, Inc., and HMO or service company
subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. © 2024 The Cigna Group.
5 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Bone Modifiers – Tymlos Prior Authorization Policy