BENEFIT EXCLUSION OVERRIDES POLICY
POLICY: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and Zepbound Benefit
Exclusion Overrides Policy
• Wegovy® (semaglutide subcutaneous injection – Novo Nordisk)
• Zepbound® (tirzepatide subcutaneous injection – Eli Lilly)
REVIEW DATE: 10/23/2024; selected revision 01/08/2025, 05/28/2025,
07/09/2025, and 08/27/2025
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
THE FOLLOWING COVERAGE POLICY APPLIES TO HEALTH BENEFIT PLANS ADMINISTERED BY CIGNA COMPANIES. CERTAIN CIGNA
COMPANIES AND/OR LINES OF BUSINESS ONLY PROVIDE UTILIZATION REVIEW SERVICES TO CLIENTS AND DO NOT MAKE COVERAGE
DETERMINATIONS. REFERENCES TO STANDARD BENEFIT PLAN LANGUAGE AND COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS DO NOT APPLY TO THOSE
CLIENTS. COVERAGE POLICIES ARE INTENDED TO PROVIDE GUIDANCE IN INTERPRETING CERTAIN STANDARD BENEFIT PLANS
ADMINISTERED BY CIGNA COMPANIES. PLEASE NOTE, THE TERMS OF A CUSTOMER'S PARTICULAR BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT [GROUP
SERVICE AGREEMENT, EVIDENCE OF COVERAGE, CERTIFICATE OF COVERAGE, SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION (SPD) OR SIMILAR PLAN
DOCUMENT] MAY DIFFER SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THE STANDARD BENEFIT PLANS UPON WHICH THESE COVERAGE POLICIES ARE BASED. FOR
EXAMPLE, A CUSTOMER'S BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT MAY CONTAIN A SPECIFIC EXCLUSION RELATED TO A TOPIC ADDRESSED IN A COVERAGE
POLICY. IN THE EVENT OF A CONFLICT, A CUSTOMER'S BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT ALWAYS SUPERSEDES THE INFORMATION IN THE
COVERAGE POLICIES. IN THE ABSENCE OF A CONTROLLING FEDERAL OR STATE COVERAGE MANDATE, BENEFITS ARE ULTIMATELY
DETERMINED BY THE TERMS OF THE APPLICABLE BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT. COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS IN EACH SPECIFIC INSTANCE
REQUIRE CONSIDERATION OF 1) THE TERMS OF THE APPLICABLE BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT IN EFFECT ON THE DATE OF SERVICE; 2) ANY
APPLICABLE LAWS/REGULATIONS; 3) ANY RELEVANT COLLATERAL SOURCE MATERIALS INCLUDING COVERAGE POLICIES AND; 4) THE
SPECIFIC FACTS OF THE PARTICULAR SITUATION. EACH COVERAGE REQUEST SHOULD BE REVIEWED ON ITS OWN MERITS. MEDICAL
DIRECTORS ARE EXPECTED TO EXERCISE CLINICAL JUDGMENT WHERE APPROPRIATE AND HAVE DISCRETION IN MAKING INDIVIDUAL
COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS. WHERE COVERAGE FOR CARE OR SERVICES DOES NOT DEPEND ON SPECIFIC CIRCUMSTANCES,
REIMBURSEMENT WILL ONLY BE PROVIDED IF A REQUESTED SERVICE(S) IS SUBMITTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RELEVANT CRITERIA
OUTLINED IN THE APPLICABLE COVERAGE POLICY, INCLUDING COVERED DIAGNOSIS AND/OR PROCEDURE CODE(S). REIMBURSEMENT IS
NOT ALLOWED FOR SERVICES WHEN BILLED FOR CONDITIONS OR DIAGNOSES THAT ARE NOT COVERED UNDER THIS COVERAGE POLICY
(SEE "CODING INFORMATION" BELOW). WHEN BILLING, PROVIDERS MUST USE THE MOST APPROPRIATE CODES AS OF THE EFFECTIVE
DATE OF THE SUBMISSION. CLAIMS SUBMITTED FOR SERVICES THAT ARE NOT ACCOMPANIED BY COVERED CODE(S) UNDER THE APPLICABLE
COVERAGE POLICY WILL BE DENIED AS NOT COVERED. COVERAGE POLICIES RELATE EXCLUSIVELY TO THE ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH
BENEFIT PLANS. COVERAGE POLICIES ARE NOT RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TREATMENT AND SHOULD NEVER BE USED AS TREATMENT
GUIDELINES. IN CERTAIN MARKETS, DELEGATED VENDOR GUIDELINES MAY BE USED TO SUPPORT MEDICAL NECESSITY AND OTHER
COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS.
CIGNA NATIONAL FORMULARY COVERAGE:
OVERVIEW
Wegovy and Zepbound are indicated in combination with a reduced-calorie diet
and increased physical activity:1,4
• To reduce excess body weight and maintain weight reduction long
term in:
o Wegovy and Zepbound: Adults with overweight in the presence of at
least one weight-related comorbid condition.1,3
o Wegovy and Zepbound: Adults with obesity.1,3,4
o Wegovy: Pediatric patients ≥ 12 years of age with obesity.1
Page 1 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and Zepbound
Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
Wegovy is also indicated in combination with a reduced-calorie diet and increased
physical activity:1
• To reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV
death, non-fatal myocardial infarction {MI}, or non-fatal stroke) in adults
with established CV disease and either obesity or overweight.1,2
• For the treatment of non-cirrhotic metabolic dysfunction-associated
steatohepatitis (MASH), formerly known as non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH), with moderate to advanced liver fibrosis (consistent with stages F2
to F3 fibrosis) in adults.1,25-26
Zepbound is indicated in combination with a reduced-calorie diet and increased
physical activity:4
• To treat moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in adults
with obesity.
Dosing
In the prescribing information for Wegovy, a recommended dose escalation
schedule of 16 weeks is outlined (the 2.4 mg dose would be reached at the start of
Week 17).1 If a patient does not tolerate a dose during dose escalation, consider
delaying dose escalation for 4 weeks. For CV risk reduction and weight reduction,
the maintenance dose of Wegovy is 2.4 mg (recommended) or 1.7 mg injected
subcutaneously (SC) once weekly (QW); consider treatment response and
tolerability when selecting the maintenance dose. For MASH, the recommended
maintenance dose is 2.4 mg QW. If the patient does not tolerate 2.4 mg QW, the
dose can be decreased to 1.7 mg QW. Consider re-escalation to 2.4 mg QW.
In the prescribing information for Zepbound, the recommended starting dose is 2.5
mg SC QW.9 The 2.5 mg dose is for treatment initiation and is not intended for
chronic weight management. After 4 weeks, the dose can be increased to 5 mg
QW. The dose can then be increased in 2.5 mg increments, after at least 4 weeks
on the current dose. The recommended maintenance doses for weight reduction
and long-term maintenance are 5 mg, 10 mg, or 15 mg QW. The recommended
maintenance dose in OSA is 10 mg or 15 mg QW. The treatment response and
tolerability should be considered when selecting the maintenance dose. If a patient
does not tolerate a maintenance dose, consider a lower maintenance dose. The
maximum dose is 15 mg QW. The 5 mg, 10 mg, and 15 mg maintenance doses are
reached after Week 4, Week 12, and Week 20, respectively.
Clinical Efficacy
Secondary Prevention of MACE
SELECT was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, event-driven study
that assessed Wegovy vs. placebo, when added to standard of care, for the
secondary prevention of CV events in adults ≥ 45 years of age with BMI ≥ 27
kg/m2 and established CV disease without diabetes (n = 17, 604).2 Established CV
disease was defined as one of the following: prior MI, prior stroke (ischemic or
hemorrhagic), and/or symptomatic peripheral arterial disease (as evidenced by
intermittent claudication with ankle-brachial index < 0.85, peripheral arterial
revascularization procedure, or amputation due to atherosclerotic disease). The
Page 2 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and Zepbound
Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
trial excluded patients who had received a GLP-1 or GLP-1/GIP agonist within 90
days of enrollment. Patients who developed diabetes during the study remained in
the study and received treatment (excluding use of another GLP-1 or GLP-1/GIP
agonist). Wegovy was titrated to reach the 2.4 mg QW maintenance dose over 16
weeks. However, if dose escalation led to unacceptable effects, the dose escalation
intervals could be extended, treatment could be paused, or maintenance doses <
2.4 mg QW could be used. Very few patients (< 0.1%) were treated with weight‐
lowering pharmacotherapy at baseline (further detail is not available; however,
concomitant GLP-1 agonist use was not allowed).3 The mean hemoglobin A
1c
(HbA ) was just over 5.7%; 67% of patients had a HbA ≥ 5.7% (pre-diabetes).
1c 1c
The most common prior CV event was MI (68% of patients), followed by stroke
(18%), and 4.5% of patients had symptomatic peripheral arterial disease; 8% of
patients had two or more of these conditions. At baseline, 91.8% of patients were
receiving CV risk‐lowering pharmacotherapy, 90% of patients were receiving lipid‐
lowering agents (87.3% of patients were taking statins, 13.0% of patients were
taking ezetimibe, 2.7% of patients were taking fibrates, and 2.0% of patients were
taking proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 inhibitors), 86.2% of patients
were receiving platelet aggregation inhibitors, and 12.6% of patients were receiving
antithrombotic medications.2,3 In addition, 70.2% of patients were taking beta-
blockers, 45.0% of patients were taking angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors,
and 29.5% of patients were taking angiotensin receptor blockers.3 The primary
efficacy endpoint was a composite of death from CV causes, non-fatal MI, or non-
fatal stroke.2
Results. Patients were followed for a mean of 39.8 months.2 At Week 104,
approximately 77% of patients receiving Wegovy were taking the target 2.4 mg QW
dose (details on the exact proportions of patients on other Wegovy doses are not
available; efficacy results are only provided for the 2.4 mg dose). The trial
achieved its primary endpoint, demonstrating a statistically significant and superior
reduction in MACE for Wegovy vs. placebo. A primary endpoint event occurred in
6.5% vs. 8.0% of patients in the Wegovy vs. placebo groups, respectively (hazard
ratio [HR] 0.80; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.72, 0.90; P < 0.001). Death from
CV events, the first confirmatory secondary endpoint, occurred in 2.5% vs. 3.0% of
Wegovy- vs. placebo-treated patients, respectively (HR 0.85; 95% CI: 0.71, 1.01;
P = not significant for superiority). Because the difference between groups for
death from CV events did not meet the required P-value for superiority, testing was
not performed for the remaining confirmatory and secondary endpoints.
MASH
The ESSENCE trial (Part 1 n = 800), a two-part, ongoing. Phase III, multicenter,
double-blind, parallel-group trial randomized adults with MASH and stage F2 to F3
fibrosis to Wegovy or placebo, both in addition to standard of care (optimization of
treatment for type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemia, and CV risk management).12,13 Results
from Part 1 have been published. Eligible patients were ≥ 18 years of age with
histological presence of steatohepatitis with stage F2 to F3 fibrosis according to
NASH Clinical Research Network classification and a non-alcoholic fatty liver disease
(NAFLD) activity score (NAS) of ≥ 4, with a score of ≥ 1 in each component
(steatosis, lobular inflammation, and hepatocyte ballooning), based on central
Page 3 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and Zepbound
Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
pathologist evaluation of a baseline liver biopsy. Patients with an average alcohol
consumption of ≥ 20 grams/day for women or ≥ 30 grams/day for men or alcohol
dependence were excluded.12,13 Patients taking stable doses of pioglitazone,
vitamin E, glucose lowering agent(s), lipid-lowering medication(s), and weight loss
medication(s) were allowed to continue these therapies. Rezdiffra™ (resmetirom
tablets) was not approved at the time the trial commenced; therefore, no patients
were taking Rezdiffra in Part 1 of this trial. Concomitant use of any other GLP-1 or
GLP-1/GIP agonist was not allowed. In patients randomized to Wegovy, the dose
was escalated over 16 weeks to reach Wegovy 2.4 mg SC QW. Patients could
continue to receive a lower dose of Wegovy if they had unacceptable side effects
while receiving the designated target dose and would otherwise discontinue the
study.12 The two primary histologic endpoints were: 1) Resolution of
steatohepatitis and no worsening of liver fibrosis; and 2) Improvement in liver
fibrosis and no worsening of steatohepatitis. In Part 2 of the trial, the primary
endpoint will be cirrhosis-free survival at Week 240 (ongoing). Overall, 56% of
patients had type 2 diabetes. The mean BMI was 34.6 kg/m2 and most patients
had a BMI ≥ 35 kg/m2 (41.3%); 31.5% of patients had a BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2 to < 35
kg/m2, 20.5% of patients had a BMI of ≥ 25 kg/m2 to < 30 kg/m2, and 6.6% of
patients had a BMI < 25 kg/m2. Most patients fulfilled four (27.8%) or five
(43.3%) of five metabolic dysfunction-associated metabolic liver disease (MASLD)
cardiometabolic criteria (i.e., BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2 [≥ 23 kg/m2 Asia] or waist
circumference > 94 cm [male] or > 80 cm [female] or ethnicity adjusted
equivalent; fasting serum glucose ≥ 100 mg/dL or 2-hour post-prandial glucose ≥
140 mg/dL or type 2 diabetes or treatment for type 2 diabetes; blood pressure ≥
130/85 mmHg or specific antihypertensive drug treatment; plasma high-density
lipoprotein cholesterol [HDL-C] ≤ 40 mg/dL [male] and ≤ 50 mg/dL [female] or
lipid-lowering treatment). Most patients had stage F3 fibrosis (68.8%); 31.3% of
patients had stage F2 fibrosis. The mean NAS was 5.05 (5.11 in patients with
stage F3 fibrosis and 4.92 in patients with stage F2 fibrosis).
Results. At the time of the primary endpoint assessment 83.5% of patients were
taking Wegovy 2.4 mg QW.13 At the interim analysis (the first 800 patients enrolled
in the trial), the between-group differences for both primary endpoints were
significant for Wegovy vs. placebo. Wegovy demonstrated a significant
improvement in liver fibrosis with no worsening of steatohepatitis, as well as
resolution of steatohepatitis with no worsening of liver fibrosis. At Week 72, 62.9%
vs. 34.1% of patients treated with Wegovy vs. placebo, respectively, achieved
resolution of steatohepatitis with no worsening of liver fibrosis (estimated difference
28.7%; 95% CI: 21.1%, 36.2%; P < 0.001). In addition, at Week 72, 36.8% vs.
22.4% of patients treated with Wegovy vs. placebo, respectively, had a reduction in
liver fibrosis with no worsening of steatohepatitis (estimated difference 14.4%;
95% CI: 7.5%, 21.3%; P < 0.001). Confirmatory secondary endpoints also
generally favored Wegovy (e.g., resolution of steatohepatitis with improvement in
liver fibrosis, weight change). At Week 72, the proportion of patients with both
resolution of steatohepatitis and improvement in fibrosis was 32.7% vs. 16.1% of
patients receiving Wegovy vs. placebo, respectively (difference 16.5%; 95% CI:
10.2% to 22.8%, respectively; P < 0.001). The mean change in body weight was -
10.5% vs. -2.0% for Wegovy vs. placebo, respectively (difference -8.5%; 95% CI:
Page 4 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and Zepbound
Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
-9.6%, -7.4%; P < 0.001). Improvements in liver enzymes, non-invasive liver
tests, and other metabolic parameters also favored Wegovy. Among patients with
F2 fibrosis (Wegovy vs. placebo), 45.0% vs. 22.7% of patients, respectively, had
improvement of fibrosis, 37.1% vs. 42.4% of patients, respectively, had no change
in fibrosis, and 17.9% vs. 34.8% of patients, respectively, had worsening of
fibrosis. Part 2 of the trial is ongoing and expected to read out in 2029.
OSA
The SURMOUNT-OSA (n = 469) trials were two 52-week, Phase III, multicenter,
double-blind, randomized trials that evaluated the efficacy and safety of maximally
tolerated Zepbound (10 mg or 15 mg QW) in adults with obesity (without diabetes)
and moderate to severe OSA.5 Two patient populations were included. In Trial 1,
patients were unable or unwilling to use positive airway pressure (PAP) therapy,
and in Trial 2, patients had been using PAP therapy for ≥ 3 months at the time of
screening and planned to continue PAP therapy during the trial. All patients had a
diagnosis of moderate to severe OSA with an apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) ≥ 15
events/hour as diagnosed with polysomnography, home sleep apnea test, or other
methods that met local guidelines prior to Visit 1. Patients had a BMI of ≥ 30
kg/m2 (≥ 27 kg/m2 in Japan) despite the history of at least one self-reported
unsuccessful dietary effort to lose weight. Key exclusion criteria were the presence
of type 1 or type 2 diabetes (HbA ≥ 6.5% at Visit 1), change in weight of > 5 kg
1c
in the past 3 months, planned surgery for sleep apnea or obesity, diagnosis of
central or mixed sleep apnea with the percentage of mixed or central
apneas/hypopneas ≥ 50%, or diagnosis of Cheyne Stokes respiration, diagnosis of
obesity hypoventilation syndrome or daytime hypocapnia, active device treatment
of OSA other than PAP therapy (e.g., dental appliance), and major craniofacial
abnormalities that may affect breathing. In addition, use of medications
(prescribed or over-the-counter) or alternative remedies to promote weight loss in
the past 3 months was not allowed, this included other GLP-1 or GLP-1/GIP
agonists. Of note, although patients with diabetes at baseline were excluded, if a
patient developed diabetes while in the study, the patient was referred to their
usual care provider. The decision to further evaluate, to initiate antihyperglycemic
therapy, and the choice of antihyperglycemic medication was at the discretion of
the provider. Following a 4-week screening period, patients were assigned to Trial
1 or Trial 2 and randomly assigned to receive Zepbound or placebo SC QW. All
patients received regular lifestyle counseling sessions focused on the maintenance
of healthy nutrition, adherence to a 500 calorie/day deficit, and ≥ 150 minutes per
week of physical activity. The dose of Zepbound was escalated over a period of up
to 20 weeks starting at 2.5 mg SC QW and increased by 2.5 mg every 4 weeks
during the dose-escalation period until the patient reached the maximum tolerated
dose of 10 mg or 15 mg SC QW at Week 20. Dose modification was permitted for
the management of intolerable gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms. Patients who did
not tolerate ≥ 10 mg even after one de-escalation and re-escalation attempt were
discontinued from the study intervention but remained in the study for continued
follow-up. During the first 24 weeks of the treatment period (20-week dose
escalation plus 4 weeks), patients unable to tolerate 2.5 mg or 5 mg were
discontinued from the study intervention but remained in the study. For patients
unable to tolerate any dose escalation between 7.5 mg and 15 mg (inclusive), a
Page 5 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and Zepbound
Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
dose de-escalation step with subsequent re-escalation by 2.5 mg every 4 weeks up
to the maximum tolerated dose was allowed in a blinded fashion, to reach either
the 10 mg or 15 mg dose. Only one cycle of dose de-escalation and re-escalation
was permitted during the first 24 weeks of the treatment period. The 10 mg
maintenance dose was used in patients who tolerated 10 mg, but not 12.5 mg or
15 mg even following one de-escalation and re-escalation attempt. In addition,
patients who tolerated 12.5 mg, but not 15 mg even after one de-escalation and
re-escalation attempt, continued 10 mg as their maximum tolerated dose. Patients
who tolerated 15 mg continued 15 mg as their maximum tolerated dose.
The primary endpoint was the superiority of Zepbound vs. placebo for the change in
the AHI from baseline.5 Several key secondary endpoints were assessed, including
the proportion of patients with an AHI reduction of ≥ 50%, the proportion of
patients with an AHI of < 5 events/hour or with an AHI of 5 to 14 events/hour and
a score of ≤ 10 on the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS; scores range from 0 to 24
with higher scores indicating greater daytime sleepiness), percent change in body
weight, change in high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP), change in sleep
apnea specific hypoxic burden, changes in patient-reported outcome measures, and
the change in systolic blood pressure. In Trial 1, the mean BMI was 39.1 kg/m2
and the mean AHI was 51.5 events/hour. Most patients had severe OSA (63%). In
Trial 2, the mean BMI was 38.7 kg/m2 and the mean AHI was 49.5 events/hour.
Most patients had severe OSA (68%).
Results. In both trials, Zepbound was superior to placebo for the primary
endpoint. In Trial 1, the change in AHI at Week 52 with Zepbound was superior to
placebo (-25.3 events/hour [95% CI: -29.3, -21.2] vs. -5.3 events/hour [95% CI:
-9.4, -1.1], respectively; estimated treatment difference of -20.0 events/hour; 95%
CI: -25.8, -14.2; P < 0.001).5 In Trial 2, the change in AHI at Week 52 with
Zepbound was superior to placebo (-29.3 events/hour [95% CI: -33.2, -25.4] vs. -
5.5 events/hour [95% CI: -9.9, -1.2], respectively; estimated treatment difference
of -23.8 events/hour; 95% CI: -26.9, -17.9; P < 0.001). Additionally, patients in
both trials who received Zepbound had significant reductions in sleep apnea-specific
hypoxic burden. The proportion of patients with a reduction in the AHI of ≥ 50% at
Week 52 and the proportion of patients with an AHI of < 5 events/hour or an AHI of
5 to 14 events/hour and an ESS of ≤ 10 at Week 52 also favored Zepbound.
Patients receiving Zepbound in both trials had significant reductions in body weight,
systolic blood pressure, and hsCRP concentrations as well.
Guidelines
MASH
Available recommendations for MASH predate the availability of the published
ESSENCE trial data and the approval of Wegovy for MASH. Note: The titles and
verbiage within individual publications may not reflect the current MASH or MASLD
nomenclature due to the timing of the respective publication. The nomenclature
used in this section is reflective of that used within each publication.
The American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) Practice
Guidance on the Clinical Management of NAFLD (2023) was updated in October
Page 6 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and Zepbound
Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
2024 to address the approval of Rezdiffra for MASLD.14 Some recommendations
regarding other therapies (e.g., GLP-1 agonists) are also made. Regardless of
treatment, the management of MASLD should include comprehensive lifestyle
modification (e.g., nutrition, exercise, and behavior modification) and optimal
control of comorbid metabolic conditions. Further, given the comorbidity profile of
individuals with MASLD, CV risk management is an important aspect of medical
management. MASH can only be definitively diagnosed by histologic exam
(biopsy), in practice, patient selection is based on evidence of steatosis and fibrosis
as determined by non-invasive liver disease assessments (NILDAs) in patients with
cardiometabolic risk factors without other causes of steatosis, notably, alcohol
consumption of > 20 g/day for women and > 30 g/day for men. There are no FDA-
approved NILDAs to diagnose MASH with stage F2 to F3 fibrosis or to monitor the
response to pharmacotherapy. In general, imaging-based NILDAs such as liver
stiffness measurement by vibration-controlled transient elastography (VCTE) or
magnetic resonance elastography have better accuracy in assessing fibrosis vs.
blood-based tests. In general, magnetic resonance spectroscopy and magnetic
resonance imaging proton density fat fraction are considered the most accurate
quantitative measures of hepatic steatosis, followed by VCTE-controlled attenuation
parameter score and gray scale ultrasound. However, for the purpose of selecting
patients for treatment with non-quantitative imaging evidence of hepatic steatosis
(e.g., ultrasonographic evidence) in individuals with at least one cardiometabolic
risk factor and F2 or F3 fibrosis may be sufficient. Liver biopsy is not typically
recommended for fibrosis staging in current clinical practice; however, histologic
exam remains the gold standard to quantify fibrosis if performed previously
(historical biopsy obtained reasonably recently, e.g., within 3 years). Since NILDAs
are more readily available than liver biopsy, it is recommended that more current
data (e.g., within 6 to 12 months) be utilized to determine patients who are
appropriate candidates for treatment. Regardless of treatment, the management of
MASLD should include comprehensive lifestyle modification (e.g., nutrition,
exercise, and behavior modification) and optimal control of comorbid metabolic
conditions.
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) Standards of Care (2025) provide
recommendations for the management of patients with type 2 diabetes and MASLD
or MASH.18 In adults with type 2 diabetes, MASLD, and overweight or obesity, a
GLP-1 agonist (i.e., liraglutide, semaglutide) or GLP-1/GIP agonist (i.e., tirzepatide)
with potential benefits in MASH, in addition to healthy interventions for weight loss,
is recommended for glycemic management. In adults with type 2 diabetes and
MASH or those at high-risk for liver fibrosis (based on non-invasive tests),
pioglitazone, GLP-1 agonists, or a GLP-1/GIP agonist is preferred for glycemic
management due to potential beneficial effects on MASH.
The ADA Consensus Report on MASLD in People with Diabetes (2025) largely
provides recommendations similar to those outlined in the ADA standards of care
for patients with type 2 diabetes and MASLD or MASH.15 In patients with at-risk
MASH (stage F2 to F3 fibrosis) Rezdiffra may be considered after treatment
optimization for obesity and/or diabetes therapies for at least 6 to 12 months. The
addition of Rezdiffra should be initiated by a hepatologist or gastroenterologist with
Page 7 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and Zepbound
Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
expertise in MASH. For the treatment of diabetes, preference should be given to
treatments with evidence of safety and effectiveness for steatohepatitis from high-
quality trials (e.g., GLP-1 agonists and/or pioglitazone, or GLP-1/GIP agonist), with
the dual purpose of treating hyperglycemia and steatohepatitis. Once cirrhosis is
established there are no effective treatments. Similar to the AASLD update, the
report acknowledges the data are limited for combination use of Rezdiffra with
medications often used for comorbidities in MASLD (e.g., pioglitazone, GLP-1
agonist, or GLP-1/GIP agonist). People with obesity and type 2 diabetes should
make it a priority to optimize lifestyle and medical management with a GLP-1
agonist, pioglitazone, or their combination, or a GLP-1/GIP agonist with potential
benefits for steatohepatitis.
The American Academy of Clinical Endocrinology Clinical Practice Guideline (co-
sponsored by AASLD) [2022] for the Diagnosis and Management of NAFLD in
Primary Care and Endocrinology Settings discusses medications that have been
proven to be effective for the treatment of liver disease and cardiometabolic
conditions associated with NAFLD or NASH.16 The use of obesity pharmacotherapy
in adjunct to lifestyle modification for individuals with obesity and NAFLD or NASH
with a goal of ≥ 5%, and preferably ≥ 10%, weight loss is recommended, when this
is not effectively achieved by lifestyle modification alone. For chronic weight
management in individuals with a BMI ≥ 27 kg/m2 and NAFLD or NASH obesity
pharmacotherapy should be considered (preference is given to Wegovy [2.4
mg/week, best evidence] or Saxenda [3 mg/day]). These therapies must be
considered as adjuncts to lifestyle modification for individuals with obesity and
NAFLD or NASH to promote cardiometabolic health and treat or prevent type 2
diabetes, CV disease, and other end-stage manifestations of obesity.
The American Heart Association Scientific Statement on NAFLD and CV risk (2022)
provides several key take-away messages for healthcare providers.17 NASH is
recognized as a contributor to, and marker for, increased atherosclerotic CV disease
risk. Many risk factors for NAFLD are also risk factors for atherosclerotic CV
disease; NAFLD can be considered a risk enhancer when atherosclerotic CV disease
risk is assessed. Similar to the other publications, lifestyle intervention is the key
therapeutic intervention for patients with NAFLD. Dietary modification, increased
physical activity, weight loss, and alcohol avoidance are strongly encouraged.
Weight loss pharmacotherapy such as phentermine, Qsymia®
(phentermine/topiramate extended-release capsules), Contrave®
(naltrexone/bupropion extended-release tablets), high-dose liraglutide, high-dose
semaglutide, and orlistat may be appropriate and effective to achieve sustained
weight loss in some patients with BMI > 30 or ≥ 27 kg/m2 with comorbidities;
however, the role of these agents in the management of NAFLD and NASH is
currently undefined. Bariatric surgery should be considered in patients with NAFLD
or NASH with BMI > 35 kg/m2 as it is the most effective intervention for achieving
sustained weight loss in such individuals with a median body weight loss of 21% to
30%.
Sleep Apnea
Page 8 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and Zepbound
Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
The American Academy of Sleep Medicine (2017) recommends that diagnostic
testing for OSA be performed in combination with a comprehensive sleep
evaluation.6 Polysomnography is the standard diagnostic test for the diagnosis of
OSA in adults in whom there is concern for OSA based on the sleep evaluation.
Polysomnography is accepted as the gold standard test for the diagnosis of OSA. In
some cases, and within the appropriate context, the use of home sleep apnea test
as the initial sleep study may be acceptable, however, polysomnography should be
used when home sleep apnea test results do not provide satisfactory posttest
probability of confirming or ruling out OSA.
Available treatment guidelines for OSA do not specifically mention the GLP-1
agonists. The American Thoracic Society clinical practice guideline on the role of
weight management in the treatment with adults with OSA (2018) recommends
that patients with OSA who are overweight or obese (BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2) participate
in comprehensive lifestyle intervention that includes a reduced calorie diet,
exercise/increased physical activity, and behavioral counseling.7 For patients with
OSA and a BMI ≥ 27 kg/m2 who have not had an improvement in weight despite a
comprehensive weight-loss lifestyle program, and have no contraindications (no
active CV disease), evaluation for anti-obesity medication is suggested. The
guideline also cites agreement with the American Association of Clinical
Endocrinologists and the American College of Endocrinology guidelines (2016)19,
which state the weight-loss goal in patients with overweight or obesity with OSA
should be ≥ 7% to 11% of total body weight.7 In patients with a BMI ≥ 35 kg/m2,
referral for bariatric surgery evaluation is suggested.
The American College of Physicians clinical practice guideline for the management
of OSA (2013) recommends that all overweight and obese patients diagnosed with
OSA be encouraged to lose weight.8 Continuous PAP is recommended as initial
therapy for patients with OSA. Mandibular advancement devices are recommended
for patients with OSA who prefer such devices or for those with adverse events
associated with continuous PAP treatment.
Clinical success in OSA has been described by several publications. The American
Academy of Sleep Medicine (2019) cites a clinically significant threshold of ≥ 15
events/hour (on AHI)9 and a clinical practice guideline for the treatment of OSA and
snoring with oral appliance therapy (2015) from the American Academy of Sleep
Medicine and American Academy of Dental Sleep Medicine10 notes that treatment
success is usually defined as a reduction in the AHI to a specific level (e.g., post-
treatment AHI < 5 events/hour, or a > 50% reduction in AHI). Of note, a meta-
analysis on the impact of weight reduction on AHI reported that weight reduction in
patients with obesity and OSA was associated with improvements in the severity of
OSA. A BMI reduction of 20% was associated with an AHI reduction of 57%;
further weight reduction beyond 20% in BMI was associated with a smaller effect
on AHI.11
POLICY STATEMENT
Page 9 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and Zepbound
Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
This Benefit Exclusion Overrides policy has been developed to authorize coverage of
the targeted drug(s) for approved medical conditions, except weight loss. This
Benefit Exclusion Overrides policy is not applicable if clients have weight loss as a
covered benefit. In the clinical criteria, as appropriate, an asterisk (*) is noted next
to the specified gender. In this context, the specified gender is defined as follows:
males are defined as individuals with the biological traits of a male, regardless of
the individual’s gender identity or gender expression; females are defined as
individuals with the biological traits of a female, regardless of the individual’s
gender identity or gender expression. Because of the specialized skills required for
evaluation and diagnosis of patients treated with Wegovy for metabolic dysfunction-
associated steatohepatitis (MASH)/non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) as well as
the monitoring required for adverse events and long-term efficacy, approval
requires Wegovy for MASH/NASH to be prescribed by or in consultation with a
physician who specializes in the condition being treated. All approvals are provided
for the duration noted below.
Documentation: Documentation is required for use of Wegovy for MASH/NASH as
noted in the criteria as [documentation required]. Documentation may include,
but is not limited to, chart notes, laboratory results, medical test results, claims
records, prescription receipts, and/or other information. All documentation must
include patient-specific identifying information.
I. Wegovy is(are) covered as medically necessary when the following criteria
is(are) met for FDA-approved indication(s) or other uses with supportive
evidence (if applicable):
1. Major Adverse Cardiovascular Event(s) Risk Reduction in a Patient with
Established Cardiovascular Disease with Overweight or Obesity. Approve
for 1 year if the patient meets ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve if the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii, iii, iv,
and v):
i. Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND
ii. Patient has a current BMI ≥ 27 kg/m2; AND
iii. Patient meets ONE of the following (a, b, or c):
a) Patient has had a prior myocardial infarction; OR
b) Patient has had a prior stroke; OR
Note: This does not include a transient ischemic attack (TIA).
c) Patient has a history of symptomatic peripheral arterial disease as
evidenced by ONE of the following [(1), (2), or (3)]:
(1) Intermittent claudication with ankle-brachial index < 0.85; OR
(2) Peripheral arterial revascularization procedure; OR
(3) Amputation due to atherosclerotic disease; AND
iv. According to the prescriber, the medication will be used in combination
with optimized pharmacotherapy for established cardiovascular disease;
AND
v. The medication will be used concomitantly with behavioral modification
and a reduced-calorie diet; OR
Page 10 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and
Zepbound Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
B) Patient is Continuing Therapy with Wegovy. Approve if the patient meets ALL
of the following (i, ii, iii, iv, and v):
Note: For a patient who has not completed 1 year of initial therapy, refer to
Initial Therapy criteria above.
i. Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND
ii. At baseline, patient had a BMI ≥ 27 kg/m2; AND
Note: This refers to baseline prior to Wegovy.
iii. Patient meets ONE of the following (a, b, or c):
a) Patient has had a prior myocardial infarction; OR
b) Patient has had a prior stroke; OR
c) Patient has a history of symptomatic peripheral arterial disease as
evidenced by ONE of the following [(1), (2), or (3)]:
(1) Intermittent claudication with ankle-brachial index < 0.85; OR
(2) Peripheral arterial revascularization procedure; OR
(3) Amputation due to atherosclerotic disease; AND
iv. According to the prescriber, the medication will be used in combination
with optimized pharmacotherapy for established cardiovascular disease;
AND
v. The medication will be used concomitantly with behavioral modification
and a reduced-calorie diet.
2. Metabolic Dysfunction-Associated Steatohepatitis (MASH)/Non-
Alcoholic Steatohepatitis (NASH). Approve for 1 year if the patient meets
the ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy: Approve if the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii, iii, iv,
v, vi, vi, and viii):
i. Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND
ii. Patient does not have cirrhosis; AND
iii. The diagnosis of MASH/NASH is confirmed by ONE of the following (a or
b):
a) Patient has had a liver biopsy AND meets BOTH of the following [(1)
and (2)]:
(1) Liver biopsy has been performed within the 3 years preceding
treatment with Wegovy [documentation required]; AND
(2) Liver biopsy shows non-alcoholic fatty liver disease activity
score of ≥ 4 with a score of ≥ 1 in ALL of the following ([i], [ii], and
[iii]) [documentation required]:
(i) Steatosis; AND
(ii) Ballooning; AND
(iii) Lobular inflammation; OR
b) Patient has had ONE of the following imaging exams performed within
the 6 months preceding treatment with Wegovy [(1), (2), or (3)]
[documentation required]:
(1) Elastography; OR
Note: Examples of elastography include, but are not limited to
vibration-controlled transient elastography (e.g., FibroScan),
transient elastography, magnetic resonance elastography, acoustic
radiation force impulse imaging, shear wave elastography.
Page 11 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and
Zepbound Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
(2) Computed tomography; OR
(3) Magnetic resonance imaging; AND
iv. Patient meets ONE of the following prior to treatment with Wegovy (a or
b) [documentation required]:
a) Patient has stage F2 fibrosis; OR
b) Patient has stage F3 fibrosis; AND
v. According to the prescriber, the patient has ONE or more of the following
metabolic risk factors that are managed according to standard of care (a,
b, c, d, e):
a) Central obesity;
b) Hypertriglyceridemia;
c) Reduced high-density lipoprotein cholesterol;
d) Hypertension;
e) Elevated fasting plasma glucose indicative of diabetes or pre-diabetes;
AND
vi. According to the prescriber, patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Female* patient: Alcohol consumption is < 20 grams/day; OR
Note: One standard drink (or one alcoholic drink equivalent) contains
roughly 14 grams of pure alcohol, which is found in 12 ounces of
regular beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1.5 ounces of distilled spirits.
b) Male* patient: Alcohol consumption < 30 grams/day; AND
Note: One standard drink (or one alcoholic drink equivalent) contains
roughly 14 grams of pure alcohol, which is found in 12 ounces of
regular beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1.5 ounces of distilled spirits.
vii. The medication will be used in combination with appropriate diet and
exercise therapy; AND
viii. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist, gastroenterologist, or hepatologist; OR
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Wegovy: Approve if the patient meets ALL of
the following (i, ii, iii, iv, v, and vi):
Note: A patient who has received < 1 year of therapy or who is restarting
therapy should be considered under criterion A (Initial Therapy).
i. Patient has completed ≥ 1 year of therapy with Wegovy AND according to
the prescriber, the patient has not had worsening of fibrosis or
MASH/NASH; AND
Note: This applies to a patient starting their second (or more) year of
therapy with Wegovy (i.e., the patient has already completed 1 year or
more of therapy with Wegovy).
ii. According to the prescriber, patient has not progressed to stage F4
(cirrhosis); AND
iii. According to the prescriber, metabolic risk factors are managed according
to standard of care; AND
iv. According to the prescriber, patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Female* patient: Alcohol consumption is < 20 grams/day; OR
Note: One standard drink (or one alcoholic drink equivalent) contains
roughly 14 grams of pure alcohol, which is found in 12 ounces of
regular beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1.5 ounces of distilled spirits.
b) Male* patient: Alcohol consumption < 30 grams/day; AND
Page 12 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and
Zepbound Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
Note: One standard drink (or one alcoholic drink equivalent) contains
roughly 14 grams of pure alcohol, which is found in 12 ounces of
regular beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1.5 ounces of distilled spirits.
v. The medication will be used in combination with appropriate diet and
exercise therapy; AND
vi. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an endocrinologist,
gastroenterologist, or hepatologist.
*Refer to the Policy Statement
II. Zepbound is(are) covered as medically necessary when the following
criteria is(are) met for FDA-approved indication(s) or other uses with
supportive evidence (if applicable):
1. Obstructive Sleep Apnea, Moderate to Severe, in a Patient with Obesity.
Approve for 1 year if the patient meets ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve if the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii, iii, iv,
and v):
i. Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND
ii. Patient has a current BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2; AND
iii. Patient has had a sleep study that shows BOTH of the following (a and b):
a) Patient has been diagnosed with moderate to severe obstructive sleep
apnea; AND
b) Patient has an apnea-hypopnea index ≥ 15 events per hour; AND
Note: A diagnosis of moderate obstructive sleep apnea is an apnea-
hypopnea index of ≥ 15 events per hour and a diagnosis of severe sleep
apnea is an apnea-hypopnea index ≥ 30 events per hour. The apnea-
hypopnea index is the number of apneas and hypopneas during 1 hour of
sleep.
iv. The patient does NOT meet either of the following (a or b):
Note: A patient who has one or more of the following
conditions/diagnoses below is not approved.
a) Central sleep apnea with percent of central apneas/hypopneas ≥ 50%;
OR
b) Cheyne Stokes respiration; AND
v. The medication will be used concomitantly with behavioral modification
and a reduced-calorie diet; OR
B) Patient is Continuing Therapy with Zepbound. Approve if the patient meets
ALL of the following (i, ii, iii, and iv):
Note: For a patient who has not completed 1 year of initial therapy, refer to
Initial Therapy criteria above.
i. Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND
ii. At baseline, patient had a BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2; AND
Note: This refers to baseline prior to Zepbound.
iii. Patient has completed ≥ 1 year of therapy with Zepbound AND the
patient meets BOTH of the following (a and b):
a) Patient has lost ≥ 10% of baseline body weight; AND
Page 13 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and
Zepbound Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
b) According to the prescriber, patient has stability in obstructive sleep
apnea signs or symptoms; AND
Note: Examples of signs or symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea
include but are not limited to snoring, excessive daytime sleepiness,
fatigue.
iv. The medication will be used concomitantly with behavioral modification
and a reduced-calorie diet.
CONDITIONS NOT COVERED
• Wegovy® (semaglutide subcutaneous injection – Novo Nordisk)
• Zepbound® (tirzepatide subcutaneous injection – Eli Lilly)
is(are) considered not medically necessary for ANY other use(s) including
the following (this list may not be all inclusive; criteria will be updated as
new published data are available):
1. Weight Loss. Coverage is determined by the member’s prescription benefit
coverage of weight loss drugs.
2. Concomitant Use with Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 (GLP-1) Agonists or
GLP-1/ Glucose-Dependent Insulinotropic Polypeptide (GIP) Agonists.
In the SELECT trial, patients could not receive concomitant GLP-1 agonists or
GLP-1/GIP1 agonists.2,3 Patients who developed diabetes during the study
remained in the study and received other forms of treatment (not GLP-1
agonists or GLP-1/GIP agonists). Further, the SELECT and ESSENCE trials
excluded patients who had received a GLP-1 or GLP-1/GIP agonist within 90
days of enrollment.2,3,12,13 The SURMOUNT OSA trial did not include patients
taking other GLP-1 agonists.5 The GLP-1 agonists and the GLP-1/GIP agonist
should not be combined with each other or with any other GLP-1 agonists or
GLP-1/GIP agonist. There are other GLP-1 and GLP-1/GIP products not included
in this policy that are FDA-approved for type 2 diabetes or chronic weight
management. Note: Examples of other GLP-1 agonists include but are not
limited to exenatide subcutaneous (SC) injection, Ozempic (semaglutide SC
injection), Rybelsus (semaglutide tablets), Saxenda (liraglutide subcutaneous
injection), Trulicity (dulaglutide SC injection), and liraglutide SC injection
(Victoza, generic). An example of a GLP-1/GIP agonist is Mounjaro (tirzepatide
SC injection).
REFERENCES
1. Wegovy® subcutaneous injection [prescribing information]. Plainsboro, NJ: Novo Nordisk; August
2025.
2. Lincoff AM, Brown-Frandsen K, Colhoun HM, et al; for the SELECT Trial Investigators.
Semaglutide and cardiovascular outcomes in obesity without diabetes. N Engl J Med.
2023;389(24):2221-2232.
3. Lingvay I, Brown-Frandson K, Colhoun HM, et al. Semaglutide for cardiovascular event reduction
in people with overweight or obesity: SELECT study baseline characteristics. Obesity.
2023;31(1):111-122.
Page 14 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and
Zepbound Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
4. Zepbound® subcutaneous injection [prescribing information]. Indianapolis, IN: Eli Lilly; April
2025.
5. Malhorta A, Grunstein RR, Fietze I, et al; for the SURMOUNT-OSA Investigators. Tirzepatide for
the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea and obesity. N Engl J Med. 2024;391(13):1193-1205.
6. Kapur VK, Auckley DH, Chowdhuri S, et al. Clinical practice guideline for diagnostic testing for
adult obstructive sleep apnea: an American Academy of Sleep Medicine clinical practice guideline.
J Clin Sleep Med. 2017;13(3):479-504.
7. Hudgel DW, Patel SR, Ahasic AM, et al; on behalf of the American Thoracic Society Assembly on
Sleep and Respiratory Neurology. The role of weight management in the treatment of adult
obstructive sleep apnea. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2018;198(6):e70-e87.
8. Qaseem A, Hotly JEC, Ownes DK, et al; for the Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American
College of Physicians. Management of obstructive sleep apnea in adults: a clinical practice
guideline from the American College of Physicians. Ann Intern Med. 2013;159:471-483.
9. Ramar K, Dort LC, Katz SG et al. Clinical practice guideline for the treatment of obstructive sleep
apnea and snoring with oral appliance therapy: an update for 2015. An American Academy of
Sleep Medicine and American Academy of Dental Sleep Medicine Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin
Sleep Med. 2015;11(7):773-827.
10. Patil SP, Ayappa IA, Caples SM, et al. Treatment of adult obstructive sleep apnea with positive
airway pressure: An American Academy of Sleem Medicine Systematic Review, Meta-analysis, and
GRADE Assessment. J Clin Sleep Med. 2019;15(2):301-334.
11. Malhorta A, Heilman CR, Banerjee, et al. Weight reduction and the impact on apnea-hypopnea
index: a systematic meta-analysis. Sleep Medicine. 2023;121:26-31.
12. Newsome PN, Sanyal AJ, Engerbretsen KA, et al. Semaglutide 2.4 mg in participants with
metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis: baseline characteristics and design of the phase
3 ESSENCE trial. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2024;60(11-12):1525-1533.
13. Sanyal AJ, Newsome PN, Kliers I, et al. Phase 3 trial of semaglutide in metabolic dysfunction-
associated steatohepatitis. N Engl J Med. 2025;392(21):2089-2099.
14. Chen VL, Morgan TR, Rotman Y, et al. Resmetirom therapy for metabolic dysfunction-associated
steatotic liver disease: October 2024 updates to AASLD Practice Guidance. Hepatology.
2025;81(1):312-320.
15. Cusi K, Abdelmalek MF, Apovian CM, et al. Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease
(MASLD) in people with diabetes: The need for screening and early intervention. A consensus
report of the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care. 2025;48(7):1057-1082.
16. Cusi K, Isaacs S, Barb D, et al. American Association of Clinical Endocrinology clinical practice
guideline for the diagnosis and management of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in primary care and
endocrinology settings. Co-sponsored by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases
(AASLD). Endocrine Pract. 2022;28:528-562.
17. Duell PB, Welty FK, Miller M, et al; on behalf of the American Heart Association Council on
Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis and Vascular biology; Council on Hypertension; Council on the Kidney
in Cardiovascular Disease; Council on Lifestyle and Cardiometabolic Health; and Council on
Peripheral Vascular Disease. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and cardiovascular risk: a scientific
statement from the American Heart Association. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2022;42:e168-
e185.
18. American Diabetes Association. Standards of care in diabetes – 2025. Diabetes Care.
2025;48(Suppl 1):S1-S352.
19. Garvey WT, Mechanick JI, Brett EM, Garber AJ, Hurley DL, Jastreboff AM, Nadolsky K, Pessah-
Pollack R, Plodkowski R; Reviewers of the AACE/ACE Obesity Clinical Practice Guidelines.
American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists and American College of Cardiology
comprehensive clinical practice guidelines for medical care of patients with obesity. Endocr Pract.
2016;22 Suppl 3:1-203.
HISTORY
Type of Summary of Changes Review
Revision Date
New Policy -- 10/23/2024
Page 15 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and
Zepbound Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
Selected Zepbound was added to the Policy. 01/08/2025
revision
The Policy title was changed to Non-Weight Loss Indications –
Wegovy and Zepbound. Previously titled Non-Weight Loss
Indications – Wegovy.
Wegovy
Major Adverse Cardiovascular Event(s) Risk Reduction in a
Patient with Established Cardiovascular Disease who is Either
Obese or Overweight. Initial Therapy. The criterion requiring that
the patient has a BMI ≥ 27 kg/m2 was clarified to state that the
patient has a “current” BMI ≥ 27 kg/m2. Patient is Continuing
Therapy with Wegovy: The criterion that required the patient was
able to tolerate the Wegovy maintenance dose of 1.7 mg once
weekly or 2.4 mg once weekly was removed.
Zepbound
Obstructive Sleep Apnea, Moderate to Severe, in a Patient
with Obesity. A new FDA-approved indication was added to the
Policy.
Selected Wegovy 05/28/2025
Revision Major Adverse Cardiovascular Event(s) Risk Reduction in a
Patient with Established Cardiovascular Disease who is Either
Obese or Overweight. Initial Therapy. For the requirement that a
patient has had a prior stroke, a note was added to clarify that this
does not include a transient ischemic attack (TIA).
Zepbound
Obstructive Sleep Apnea, Moderate to Severe, in a Patient
with Obesity. Initial Therapy. The requirement that a patient had
a sleep study was modified to remove the timeframe that the sleep
study was within the past 1 year. A patient is still required to have a
sleep study.
Conditions Not Covered:
Concomitant Use with Other Medications FDA-Approved for
Weight Loss. This condition not recommended for approval was
clarified to state that concomitant use with other medications FDA-
approved for weight loss is not recommended. Previously, the
requirement did not specify medications were “FDA-approved” for
weight loss. The note with examples of weight loss medications was
updated to reflect product availability for medications FDA-approved
for weight loss.
Concomitant Use with Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 (GLP-1)
Agonists or GLP-1/ Glucose-Dependent Insulinotropic
Polypeptide (GIP) Agonists. The note was updated to reflect
availability for other GLP-1 or GLP-1/GIP agonists.
Selected Wegovy: 07/09/2025
Revision Major Adverse Cardiovascular Event(s) Risk Reduction in a
Patient with Established Cardiovascular Disease in a Patient
with Overweight or Obesity. This condition of approval was re-
worded from “in an overweight or obese patient” to “in a patient with
overweight or obesity”.
Selected Policy Statement: The following was added to the Policy 08/27/2025
Revision Statement: In clinical criteria, as appropriate, an asterisk (*) is
noted next to the specified gender. In this context, the specified
gender is defined as follows: males are defined as individuals with
the biological traits of a male, regardless of the individual’s gender
Page 16 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and
Zepbound Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy
identity or gender expression; females are defined as individuals
with the biological traits of a female, regardless of the individual’s
gender identity or gender expression. Because of the specialized
skills required for evaluation and diagnosis of patients treated with
Wegovy for (MASH)/non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) as well as
the monitoring required for adverse events and long-term efficacy,
approval requires Wegovy for MASH/NASH to be prescribed by or in
consultation with a physician who specializes in the condition being
treated.
Documentation: A requirement for documentation was added for
the use of Wegovy for metabolic dysfunction-associated
steatohepatitis MASH/NASH. Documentation may include, but is not
limited to, chart notes, laboratory results, medical test results,
claims records, prescription receipts, and/or other information. All
documentation must include patient-specific identifying information.
Wegovy:
Metabolic Dysfunction-Associated Steatohepatitis
(MASH)/Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis (NASH). A new
condition of approval was added to FDA-Approved Indications.
Conditions Not Covered:
Concomitant Use with Other Medications FDA-Approved for
Weight Loss. This condition not recommended for approval was
removed.
"Cigna Companies" refers to operating subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. All products and services are
provided exclusively by or through such operating subsidiaries, including Cigna Health and Life Insurance
Company, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Evernorth Behavioral Health, Inc., Cigna Health
Management, Inc., and HMO or service company subsidiaries of The Cigna Group.© 2025 The Cigna
Group.
Page 17 of 17 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Non-Weight Loss Indications – Wegovy and
Zepbound Benefit Exclusion Overrides Policy