PRIOR AUTHORIZATION POLICY
POLICY: Immunologicals – Nucala Prior Authorization Policy
• Nucala® (mepolizumab subcutaneous injection − GlaxoSmithKline)
REVIEW DATE: 06/04/2025
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
THE FOLLOWING COVERAGE POLICY APPLIES TO HEALTH BENEFIT PLANS ADMINISTERED BY CIGNA COMPANIES. CERTAIN CIGNA
COMPANIES AND/OR LINES OF BUSINESS ONLY PROVIDE UTILIZATION REVIEW SERVICES TO CLIENTS AND DO NOT MAKE COVERAGE
DETERMINATIONS. REFERENCES TO STANDARD BENEFIT PLAN LANGUAGE AND COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS DO NOT APPLY TO THOSE
CLIENTS. COVERAGE POLICIES ARE INTENDED TO PROVIDE GUIDANCE IN INTERPRETING CERTAIN STANDARD BENEFIT PLANS
ADMINISTERED BY CIGNA COMPANIES. PLEASE NOTE, THE TERMS OF A CUSTOMER'S PARTICULAR BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT [GROUP
SERVICE AGREEMENT, EVIDENCE OF COVERAGE, CERTIFICATE OF COVERAGE, SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION (SPD) OR SIMILAR PLAN
DOCUMENT] MAY DIFFER SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THE STANDARD BENEFIT PLANS UPON WHICH THESE COVERAGE POLICIES ARE BASED. FOR
EXAMPLE, A CUSTOMER'S BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT MAY CONTAIN A SPECIFIC EXCLUSION RELATED TO A TOPIC ADDRESSED IN A COVERAGE
POLICY. IN THE EVENT OF A CONFLICT, A CUSTOMER'S BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT ALWAYS SUPERSEDES THE INFORMATION IN THE
COVERAGE POLICIES. IN THE ABSENCE OF A CONTROLLING FEDERAL OR STATE COVERAGE MANDATE, BENEFITS ARE ULTIMATELY
DETERMINED BY THE TERMS OF THE APPLICABLE BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT. COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS IN EACH SPECIFIC INSTANCE
REQUIRE CONSIDERATION OF 1) THE TERMS OF THE APPLICABLE BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT IN EFFECT ON THE DATE OF SERVICE; 2) ANY
APPLICABLE LAWS/REGULATIONS; 3) ANY RELEVANT COLLATERAL SOURCE MATERIALS INCLUDING COVERAGE POLICIES AND; 4) THE
SPECIFIC FACTS OF THE PARTICULAR SITUATION. EACH COVERAGE REQUEST SHOULD BE REVIEWED ON ITS OWN MERITS. MEDICAL
DIRECTORS ARE EXPECTED TO EXERCISE CLINICAL JUDGMENT WHERE APPROPRIATE AND HAVE DISCRETION IN MAKING INDIVIDUAL
COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS. WHERE COVERAGE FOR CARE OR SERVICES DOES NOT DEPEND ON SPECIFIC CIRCUMSTANCES,
REIMBURSEMENT WILL ONLY BE PROVIDED IF A REQUESTED SERVICE(S) IS SUBMITTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RELEVANT CRITERIA
OUTLINED IN THE APPLICABLE COVERAGE POLICY, INCLUDING COVERED DIAGNOSIS AND/OR PROCEDURE CODE(S). REIMBURSEMENT IS
NOT ALLOWED FOR SERVICES WHEN BILLED FOR CONDITIONS OR DIAGNOSES THAT ARE NOT COVERED UNDER THIS COVERAGE POLICY
(SEE "CODING INFORMATION" BELOW). WHEN BILLING, PROVIDERS MUST USE THE MOST APPROPRIATE CODES AS OF THE EFFECTIVE
DATE OF THE SUBMISSION. CLAIMS SUBMITTED FOR SERVICES THAT ARE NOT ACCOMPANIED BY COVERED CODE(S) UNDER THE APPLICABLE
COVERAGE POLICY WILL BE DENIED AS NOT COVERED. COVERAGE POLICIES RELATE EXCLUSIVELY TO THE ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH
BENEFIT PLANS. COVERAGE POLICIES ARE NOT RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TREATMENT AND SHOULD NEVER BE USED AS TREATMENT
GUIDELINES. IN CERTAIN MARKETS, DELEGATED VENDOR GUIDELINES MAY BE USED TO SUPPORT MEDICAL NECESSITY AND OTHER
COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS.
CIGNA NATIONAL FORMULARY COVERAGE:
OVERVIEW
Nucala, an interleukin (IL)-5 antagonist monoclonal antibody, is indicated for the
following uses:1
• Asthma, as add-on maintenance treatment of patients ≥ 6 years of age with
severe disease with an eosinophilic phenotype. Limitations of Use: Nucala is
not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm or status asthmaticus.
• Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), as add-on maintenance
treatment in patients ≥ 18 years of age with inadequately controlled disease
and an eosinophilic phenotype.
Limitation of Use: Nucala is not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm.
• Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP), as an add-on
maintenance treatment in patients ≥ 18 years of age with an inadequate
response to nasal corticosteroids.
• Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA) [formerly known as
Churg-Strauss Syndrome] in adult patients.
Page 1 of 13 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Immunologicals – Nucala Prior Authorization Policy
• Hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES), in patients ≥ 12 years of age who have
had HES for ≥ 6 months without an identifiable non-hematologic secondary
cause.
Clinical Efficacy
Asthma
In the pivotal asthma studies of Nucala, patients were generally required to have
elevated eosinophils at baseline (e.g., peripheral blood eosinophil count ≥ 150
cells/microliter at screening or ≥ 300 cells/microliter at some time during the
previous year). Across the studies, efficacy was assessed as early as 24 weeks.1-4
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Data to support the use of Nucala in COPD come from one pivotal study, MATINEE,
and a subgroup of patients with elevated eosinophils in a second pivotal study,
METREX.22,23 To be eligible for enrollment in MATINEE, patients had a blood
eosinophil level ≥ 300 cells per microliter at screening and a level ≥ 150 cells per
microliter within 12 months of study enrollment. Patients were required to have been
receiving background triple inhaler therapy (i.e., an inhaled corticosteroid [ICS] with
a long-acting muscarinic antagonist [LAMA] and a long-acting beta -agonist [LABA]),
2
for at least 3 months prior to randomization. Patients also experienced at least two
moderate COPD exacerbations requiring treatment with a systemic corticosteroid
with or without antibiotics, or at least one severe COPD exacerbation requiring
hospitalization for ≥ 24 hours during the year prior to screening. Patients were
randomized to receive either Nucala or placebo in addition to background
maintenance therapy for 52 weeks (METREX) or 52 to 104 weeks (MATINEE).
Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps
In one pivotal study involving adult patients with chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal
polyposis, the primary efficacy endpoints were assessed at 52 weeks.1,5 However,
improvements in nasal polyp size and symptoms compared with placebo were
observed much earlier on in the course of treatment (i.e., between 9 and 24 weeks).
Eosinophilic Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis
One study evaluated the efficacy of Nucala in patients ≥ 18 years of age with
relapsing or refractory EGPA who had received ≥ 4 weeks of a stable oral
corticosteroid dose (i.e., prednisolone, prednisone).6 Patients were also required to
have a baseline relative eosinophil level of 10% or an absolute eosinophil level >
1,000 cells per microliter; however, the baseline mean absolute eosinophil level was
approximately 175 cells per microliter across both treatment groups. While remission
benefit of Nucala was demonstrated in the overall patient population, the magnitude
of improvements observed with Nucala were larger in patients with baseline
eosinophil levels ≥ 150 cells per microliter than in patients with lower baseline levels.
An additional study evaluated the efficacy of Nucala compared with another anti-IL-
5 agent, Fasenra® (benralizumab subcutaneous injection), in patients ≥ 18 years of
age with relapsing or refractory EGPA who had received ≥ 4 weeks of a stable oral
corticosteroid dose (i.e., prednisolone, prednisone, methylprednisolone, or
hydrocortisone).30 The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients in remission
at both Week 36 and Week 48.
Page 2 of 13 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Immunologicals – Nucala Prior Authorization Policy
Hypereosinophilic Syndrome
One study evaluated the efficacy of Nucala in patients ≥ 12 years of age with
hypereosinophilic syndrome for ≥ 6 months.7 Patients with non-hematologic
secondary hypereosinophilic syndrome and those with FIP1L1-PDGFRα kinase-
positive hypereosinophilic syndrome were excluded. All patients had a baseline blood
eosinophil count ≥ 1,000 cells per microliter. Additionally, all patients had been on
stable therapy for their hypereosinophilic syndrome (e.g., oral corticosteroids,
immunosuppressive agents, or cytotoxic therapy) for 4 weeks or more prior to
randomization. Efficacy was assessed following 32 weeks of therapy.
Guidelines
Asthma Guidelines
The Global Initiative for Asthma Global Strategy for Asthma Management and
Prevention (2025) proposes a step-wise approach to asthma treatment.8 Nucala is
listed as an option for add-on therapy in patients ≥ 6 years of age with severe
eosinophilic asthma. Severe asthma is defined as asthma that is uncontrolled despite
adherence to optimized high-dose inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting beta -
2
agonist (LABA) therapy or that worsens when high-dose treatment is decreased.
Higher blood eosinophil levels, higher number of severe exacerbations in the previous
year, adult-onset asthma, nasal polyps, maintenance oral corticosteroid
requirements, and low lung function may predict a good asthma response to Nucala.
According to the European Respiratory Society/American Thoracic Society guidelines
(2014; updated in 2020), severe asthma is defined as asthma which requires
treatment with a high-dose ICS in addition to a second controller medication (and/or
systemic corticosteroids) to prevent it from becoming uncontrolled, or asthma which
remains uncontrolled despite this therapy.9,10 Uncontrolled asthma is defined as
asthma that worsens upon tapering of high-dose ICS or systemic corticosteroids or
asthma that meets one of the following four criteria:
1) Poor symptom control: Asthma Control Questionnaire consistently ≥ 1.5 or
Asthma Control Test < 20;
2) Frequent severe exacerbations: two or more bursts of systemic corticosteroids
in the previous year;
3) Serious exacerbations: at least one hospitalization, intensive care unit stay,
or mechanical ventilation in the previous year;
4) Airflow limitation: forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV ) < 80%
1
predicted after appropriate bronchodilator withholding.
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Guidelines
The Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) Global Strategy
for the Diagnosis, Management, and Prevention of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
Disease (2025) recommends triple inhaled therapy with an ICS/LAMA/LABA
combination in patients with a history of exacerbations and elevated eosinophils.24
However, guidelines note that ICS therapy increases the risk of pneumonia in patients
with COPD, particularly those with severe disease. Nucala is not currently addressed
in GOLD recommendations.
Page 3 of 13 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Immunologicals – Nucala Prior Authorization Policy
Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps Guidelines
The Joint Task Force on Practice Parameters (JTFPP) published a focused guideline
update for the medical management of CRSwNP (2023), which updated
recommendations regarding intranasal corticosteroids and biologic therapies.11
Intranasal corticosteroids are recommended for the treatment of CRSwNP. Use of
biologics (e.g., Nucala) is also recommended. However, in patients who derived a
sufficient benefit from other therapies such as intranasal corticosteroids, surgery, or
aspirin therapy after desensitization, biologics may not be preferred. Conversely,
biologics may be preferred over other medical treatment options in patients who
continue to have a high burden of disease despite receiving at least 4 weeks of
treatment with an intranasal corticosteroid.
The diagnosis of CRSwNP was not addressed in this focused guideline update.
Previous guidelines have noted that the presence of two or more signs and symptoms
of chronic rhinosinusitis (e.g., rhinorrhea, postnasal drainage, anosmia, nasal
congestion, facial pain, headache, fever, cough, and purulent discharge) that persist
for an extended period of time makes the diagnosis of chronic rhinosinusitis likely.12-
15 However, this requires confirmation of sinonasal inflammation, which can either
be done via direct visualization or computed tomography (CT) scan. Oral
corticosteroids and surgical intervention were not specifically addressed in this
update. Prior guidelines recommend short courses of oral corticosteroid as needed
and consideration of surgical removal as an adjunct to medical therapy in patients
with CRSwNP that is not responsive or is poorly responsive to medical therapy.12,13,15
Eosinophilic Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis Guidelines
The American College of Rheumatology (ACR)/Vasculitis Foundation Guideline for the
Management of Antineutrophil Cytoplasmic Antibody-Associated (ANCA) Vasculitis
(2021) includes recommendations regarding the management of EGPA.16 For
patients with active, non-severe EGPA, combination therapy with Nucala and
corticosteroids is recommended over other traditional treatments such as
methotrexate, azathioprine, or mycophenolate mofetil in the setting of remission
induction. Non-severe EGPA is defined as vasculitis in the absence of life- or organ-
threatening manifestations. In general, the clinical profile includes rhinosinusitis,
asthma, mild systemic symptoms, uncomplicated cutaneous disease, and mild
inflammatory arthritis. Nucala, in combination with corticosteroids, is also a
recommended therapy for patients who have relapsed and are experiencing non-
severe disease manifestations (i.e., asthma and/or sinonasal disease) while receiving
either low-dose corticosteroids alone, methotrexate, azathioprine, or mycophenolate
mofetil. For patients with severe EGPA, cyclophosphamide or rituximab is preferred
over Nucala for remission induction. The European Alliance of Associations for
Rheumatology (EULAR) recommendations for the management of ANCA-associated
vasculitis (2022) also address the use of Nucala for the treatment of EGPA.17 Similar
to the ACR guidelines, EULAR recommends Nucala for induction of remission in
patients with relapsing or refractory EGPA without active organ- or life-threatening
disease. It is also recommended for maintenance of remission in these patients.
Additionally, it is also among the many recommended treatment options for the
maintenance of remission of EGPA after induction of remission for organ-threatening
or life-threatening disease.
Page 4 of 13 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Immunologicals – Nucala Prior Authorization Policy
Hypereosinophilia Guidelines
The World Health Organization (WHO) and international consensus classification of
eosinophilic disorders update on diagnosis, risk stratification, and management
(2024) notes that corticosteroids remain first-line therapy for the treatment of HES.18
Nucala, hydroxyurea, pegylated-interferon, imatinib, and hematopoietic stem cell
transplantation are listed as second-line treatment options.
POLICY STATEMENT
Prior Authorization is recommended for prescription benefit coverage of Nucala. All
approvals are provided for the duration noted below. In cases where the approval is
authorized in months, 1 month is equal to 30 days. Because of the specialized skills
required for evaluation and diagnosis of patients treated with Nucala as well as the
monitoring required for adverse events and long-term efficacy, initial approval
requires Nucala to be prescribed by or in consultation with a physician who specializes
in the condition being treated.
• Nucala® (mepolizumab subcutaneous injection - GlaxoSmithKline)
is(are) covered as medically necessary when the following criteria is(are)
met for FDA-approved indication(s) or other uses with supportive evidence
(if applicable):
FDA-Approved Indications
1. Asthma. Approve Nucala for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of the
following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the following
(i, ii, iii, iv, and v):
i. Patient is ≥ 6 years of age; AND
ii. Patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Patient has a blood eosinophil level ≥ 150 cells per microliter within the
previous 6 weeks; OR
b) Patient had a blood eosinophil level ≥ 150 cells per microliter prior to
treatment with Nucala or another monoclonal antibody therapy that may
alter blood eosinophil levels; AND
Note: Examples of monoclonal antibody therapies that may alter blood
eosinophil levels include Nucala, Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm
subcutaneous injection), Cinqair (reslizumab intravenous infusion),
Dupixent (dupilumab subcutaneous injection), Ebglyss (lebrikizumab-
lbkz subcutaneous injection), Fasenra (benralizumab subcutaneous
injection), Nemluvio (nemolizumab-ilto subcutaneous injection),
Tezspire (tezepelumab-ekko subcutaneous injection), Xolair
(omalizumab subcutaneous injection).
iii. Patient has received at least 3 consecutive months of combination therapy
with BOTH of the following (a and b):
a) An inhaled corticosteroid; AND
Page 5 of 13 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Immunologicals – Nucala Prior Authorization Policy
b) At least one additional asthma controller or asthma maintenance
medication; AND
Note: Examples of additional asthma controller or asthma maintenance
medications are inhaled long-acting beta -agonists, inhaled long-acting
2
muscarinic antagonists, and monoclonal antibody therapies for asthma
(e.g., Cinqair, Dupixent, Fasenra, Nucala, Tezspire, and Xolair). Use of
a combination inhaler containing both an inhaled corticosteroid and
additional asthma controller/maintenance medication(s) would fulfill the
requirement for both criteria a and b.
iv. Patient has asthma that is uncontrolled or was uncontrolled at baseline as
defined by ONE of the following (a, b, c, d, or e):
Note: “Baseline” is defined as prior to receiving Nucala or another
monoclonal antibody therapy for asthma. Examples of monoclonal antibody
therapies for asthma include Nucala, Cinqair, Dupixent, Fasenra, Tezspire,
and Xolair.
a) Patient experienced two or more asthma exacerbations requiring
treatment with systemic corticosteroids in the previous year; OR
b) Patient experienced one or more asthma exacerbation(s) requiring a
hospitalization, an emergency department visit, or an urgent care visit
in the previous year; OR
c) Patient has a forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV ) < 80%
1
predicted; OR
d) Patient has an FEV /forced vital capacity (FVC) < 0.80; OR
1
e) Patient has asthma that worsens upon tapering of oral (systemic)
corticosteroid therapy; AND
v. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist,
immunologist, or pulmonologist; OR
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Nucala. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets
ALL of the following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient has already received at least 6 months of therapy with Nucala; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with Nucala should be considered under criterion 1A
(Asthma, Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient continues to receive therapy with one inhaled corticosteroid or one
inhaled corticosteroid-containing combination inhaler; AND
iii. Patient has responded to therapy as determined by the prescriber.
Note: Examples of a response to Nucala therapy are decreased asthma
exacerbations; decreased asthma symptoms; decreased hospitalizations,
emergency department, urgent care, or medical clinic visits due to asthma;
and decreased requirement for oral corticosteroid therapy.
2. Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). Approve for the duration
noted if the patient meets ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the following
(i, ii, iii, iv, and v):
i. Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND
ii. Patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
Page 6 of 13 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Immunologicals – Nucala Prior Authorization Policy
a) Patient has a blood eosinophil level ≥ 300 cells per microliter within the
previous 6 weeks; OR
b) Patient had a blood eosinophil level ≥ 300 cells per microliter prior to
treatment with Nucala or another monoclonal antibody therapy that may
alter blood eosinophil levels; AND
Note: Examples of monoclonal antibody therapies that may alter blood
eosinophil levels include Nucala, Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm
subcutaneous injection), Cinqair (reslizumab intravenous infusion),
Dupixent (dupilumab subcutaneous injection); Ebglyss (lebrikizumab-
lbkz subcutaneous injection); Fasenra (benralizumab subcutaneous
injection), Nemluvio (nemolizumab-ilto subcutaneous injection);
Tezspire (tezepelumab subcutaneous injection), and Xolair (omalizumab
subcutaneous injection).
iii. Patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Patient has received at least 3 consecutive months of combination
therapy with ALL of the following (1, 2, and 3):
(1) Inhaled long-acting beta -agonist (LABA); AND
2
(2) Inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA); AND
(3) Inhaled corticosteroid (ICS); OR
Note: Use of single-entity inhalers or a combination inhaler
containing multiple agents from the medication classes listed would
fulfill the requirement.
b) Patient meets BOTH of the following (1 and 2):
(1) Patient has received at least 3 consecutive months of combination
therapy with an inhaled LABA and an inhaled LAMA; AND
Note: Use of single-entity inhalers or a combination inhaler
containing multiple agents from the medication classes listed would
fulfill the requirement.
(2) According to the prescriber, the patient has a contraindication to
the use of an inhaled corticosteroid; AND
iv. Patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Patient experienced two or more COPD exacerbations requiring
treatment with a systemic corticosteroid with or without an antibiotic in
the previous 12 months; OR
b) Patient experienced one or more COPD exacerbation(s) requiring a
hospitalization in the previous 12 months; AND
Note: A hospitalization includes a hospital admission or an emergency
medical care visit with observation lasting > 24 hours.
v. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist,
immunologist, or pulmonologist; OR
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Nucala. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets
the following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient has already received at least 6 months of therapy with Nucala; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with Nucala should be considered under criterion 2A
(Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient continues to receive combination therapy with an inhaled LABA and
LAMA; AND
Page 7 of 13 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Immunologicals – Nucala Prior Authorization Policy
Note: Use of single-entity inhalers or a combination inhaler containing
multiple agents from the medication classes listed would fulfill the
requirement.
iii. Patient has experienced a beneficial clinical response, defined by ONE of
the following (a, b, c, d, or e):
a) Reduced COPD symptoms; OR
b) Reduced COPD exacerbations; OR
c) Reduced COPD-related hospitalizations; OR
d) Reduced emergency department or urgent care visits; OR
e) Improved lung function parameters.
3. Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps. Approve Nucala for the duration
noted if the patient meets ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the following
(i, ii, iii, iv, v, and vi):
i. Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND
ii. Patient has chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps as evidenced by direct
examination, endoscopy, or sinus computed tomography (CT) scan; AND
iii. Patient has experienced two or more of the following symptoms for at least
6 months: nasal congestion, nasal obstruction, nasal discharge, and/or
reduction/loss of smell; AND
iv. Patient meets BOTH of the following (a and b):
a) Patient has received at least 4 weeks of therapy with an intranasal
corticosteroid; AND
b) Patient will continue to receive therapy with an intranasal corticosteroid
concomitantly with Nucala; AND
v. Patient meets ONE of the following (a, b, or c):
a) Patient has received at least one course of treatment with a systemic
corticosteroid for 5 days or more within the previous 2 years; OR
b) Patient has a contraindication to systemic corticosteroid therapy; OR
c) Patient has had prior surgery for nasal polyps; AND
vi. Nucala is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist, immunologist,
or an otolaryngologist (ear, nose, and throat [ENT] physician specialist);
OR
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Nucala. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets
ALL of the following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient has already received at least 6 months of therapy with Nucala; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with Nucala should be considered under criterion 3A
(Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps, Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient continues to receive therapy with an intranasal corticosteroid; AND
iii. Patient has responded to therapy as determined by the prescriber.
Note: Examples of a response to Nucala therapy are reduced nasal polyp
size, improved nasal congestion, reduced sinus opacification, decreased
sino-nasal symptoms, improved sense of smell.
Page 8 of 13 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Immunologicals – Nucala Prior Authorization Policy
4. Eosinophilic Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis (EGPA) [formerly known as
Churg-Strauss Syndrome]. Approve Nucala for the duration noted if the patient
meets ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 9 months if the patient meets ALL of the following
(i, ii, iii, and iv):
i. Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND
ii. Patient has active, non-severe disease; AND
Note: Non-severe disease is defined as vasculitis without life- or organ-
threatening manifestations. Examples of symptoms in patients with non-
severe disease include rhinosinusitis, asthma, mild systemic symptoms,
uncomplicated cutaneous disease, mild inflammatory arthritis.
iii. Patient meets BOTH of the following (a and b):
a) Patient is currently receiving a systemic corticosteroid (e.g., prednisone)
and has been on therapy for a minimum of 4 weeks; AND
b) Patient meets ONE of the following [(1) or (2)]:
(1) Patient has a blood eosinophil level ≥ 150 cells per microliter
within the previous 4 weeks; OR
(2) Patient had a blood eosinophil level ≥ 150 cells per microliter prior
to treatment with Nucala or another monoclonal antibody therapy
that may alter blood eosinophil levels; AND
Note: Examples of monoclonal antibody therapies that may alter
blood eosinophil levels include Nucala, Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm
subcutaneous injection), Cinqair (reslizumab intravenous infusion),
Dupixent (dupilumab subcutaneous injection), Ebglyss
(lebrikizumab-lbkz subcutaneous injection), Fasenra (benralizumab
subcutaneous injection), Nemluvio (nemolizumab-ilto subcutaneous
injection), Tezspire (tezepelumab-ekko subcutaneous injection),
Xolair (omalizumab subcutaneous injection).
iv. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist,
immunologist, pulmonologist, or rheumatologist; OR
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Nucala. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets
BOTH of the following (i and ii):
i. Patient has already received at least 9 months of therapy with Nucala; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 9 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with Nucala should be considered under criterion 4A
(Eosinophilic Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis, Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient has responded to therapy as determined by the prescriber.
Note: Examples of a response to Nucala therapy are reduced rate of
relapse, corticosteroid dose reduction, and reduced eosinophil levels.
5. Hypereosinophilic Syndrome. Approve Nucala for the duration noted if the
patient meets ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 8 months if the patient meets ALL of the following
(i, ii, iii, iv, v, vi, and vii):
i. Patient is ≥ 12 years of age; AND;
ii. Patient has had hypereosinophilic syndrome for ≥ 6 months; AND
iii. Patient has FIP1L1-PDGFRα-negative disease; AND
Page 9 of 13 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Immunologicals – Nucala Prior Authorization Policy
iv. Patient does NOT have an identifiable non-hematologic secondary cause of
hypereosinophilic syndrome according to the prescriber; AND
Note: Examples of secondary causes of hypereosinophilic syndrome
include drug hypersensitivity, parasitic helminth infection, human
immunodeficiency virus infection, non-hematologic malignancy.
v. Patient has/had a blood eosinophil level ≥ 1,000 cells per microliter prior
to treatment with any monoclonal antibody therapy that may alter blood
eosinophil levels; AND
Note: Examples of monoclonal antibody therapies that may alter blood
eosinophil levels include Nucala, Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm subcutaneous
injection), Cinqair (reslizumab intravenous infusion), Dupixent (dupilumab
subcutaneous injection), Ebglyss (lebrikizumab-lbkz subcutaneous
injection), Fasenra (benralizumab subcutaneous injection), Nemluvio
(nemolizumab-ilto subcutaneous injection), Tezspire (tezepelumab-ekko
subcutaneous injection), Xolair (omalizumab subcutaneous injection).
vi. Patient has tried at least one other treatment for hypereosinophilic
syndrome for a minimum of 4 weeks; AND
Note: Example of treatments for hypereosinophilic syndrome include
systemic corticosteroids, hydroxyurea, cyclosporine, imatinib, or
pegylated-interferon.
vii. Nucala is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist,
immunologist, pulmonologist, or rheumatologist; OR
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Nucala. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets
BOTH of the following (i and ii):
i. Patient has already received at least 8 months of therapy with Nucala; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 8 months of therapy or who is
restarting therapy with Nucala should be considered under criterion 5A
(Hypereosinophilic Syndrome, Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient has responded to therapy as determined by the prescriber.
Note: Examples of a response to Nucala therapy are decreased number of
flares, improved fatigue, reduced corticosteroid requirements, and
decreased eosinophil levels.
CONDITIONS NOT COVERED
• Nucala® (mepolizumab subcutaneous injection - GlaxoSmithKline)
is(are) considered not medically necessary for ANY other use(s) including
the following (this list may not be all inclusive; criteria will be updated as
new published data are available):
1. Atopic Dermatitis. Nucala is not indicated for the treatment of atopic dermatitis.1
In one small study, intravenous (IV) mepolizumab significantly reduced peripheral
blood eosinophil counts in patients with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis.19,20
However, mepolizumab IV therapy did not result in clinical success as assessed
by Physician’s Global Assessment of Improvement scores compared with placebo.
Other clinical outcomes were also not significantly improved with mepolizumab
Page 10 of 13 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Immunologicals – Nucala Prior Authorization Policy
IV. Another small study evaluated subcutaneous Nucala in patients with moderate
to severe atopic dermatitis.21 Following 16 weeks of therapy, Nucala did not
demonstrate efficacy, with 11% (n = 2/11) of patients meeting the primary
endpoint of treatment success with Nucala vs. 0 with placebo. Further research is
warranted to determine if Nucala has a place in therapy in the treatment of these
conditions.
2. Concurrent use of Nucala with another Monoclonal Antibody Therapy. The
efficacy and safety of Nucala used in combination with other monoclonal antibody
therapies have not been established.
Note: Monoclonal antibody therapies are Adbry® (tralokinumab-ldrm
subcutaneous injection), Cinqair® (reslizumab intravenous injection), Dupixent®
(dupilumab subcutaneous injection), Ebglyss® (lebrikizumab-lbkz subcutaneous
injection), Fasenra® (benralizumab subcutaneous injection), Nemluvio®
(nemolizumab-ilto subcutaneous injection), Tezspire® (tezepelumab-ekko
subcutaneous injection), or Xolair® (omalizumab subcutaneous injection).
3. Eosinophilic Esophagitis, Eosinophilic Gastroenteritis, or Eosinophilic
Colitis. Nucala is not indicated for the treatment of eosinophilic esophagitis,
eosinophilic gastroenteritis or eosinophilic colitis.1 A few small studies reported
IV mepolizumab to be efficacious in these conditions.25-27 Of note, Nucala is not
approved for IV administration.1 One randomized, double-blind trial (n = 66)
evaluated the efficacy of Nucala in patients with eosinophilic esophagitis.28
Following 3 months of therapy, there was no statistically significant improvement
in dysphagia symptoms with Nucala vs. placebo, as measured by the Eosinophilic
Esophagitis Symptom Activity Index (EEsAI) [primary endpoint]. The EEsAI was
also not significantly different between the two treatment groups at 6 months of
treatment. However, significantly more patients achieved a histologic response
(i.e., < 15 eosinophils/high-power field) with Nucala compared with placebo.
Clinical guidelines on the diagnosis and management of eosinophilic esophagitis
from the American College of Gastroenterology (2025) do not make a
recommendation for or against Nucala citing inconsistent data.29 Further research
is warranted to determine if Nucala has a place in therapy in the treatment of
these conditions.
REFERENCES
1. Nucala® subcutaneous injection [prescribing information]. Research Triangle Park, NC:
GlaxoSmithKline; March 2023.
2. Pavord ID, Korn S, Howarth P, et al. Mepolizumab for severe eosinophilic asthma (DREAM): a
multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Lancet. 2012;380:651-659.
3. Ortega HG, Liu MC, Pavord ID, et al. Mepolizumab treatment in patients with severe eosinophilic
asthma. N Engl J Med. 2014;371:1198-1207.
4. Bel EH, Wenzel SE, Thompson PJ, et al. Oral glucocorticoid-sparing effect of mepolizumab in
eosinophilic asthma. N Engl J Med. 2014;371(13):1189-1197.
5. Han JK, Bachert C, Fokkens W, et al. Mepolizumab for chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps
(SYNAPSE): a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Respir Med.
2021;9(10):1141-1153.
6. Wechsler ME, Akuthota P, Jayne D. Mepolizumab or placebo for eosinophilic granulomatosis with
polyangiitis. N Engl J Med. 2017;376(20):1921-1932.
Page 11 of 13 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Immunologicals – Nucala Prior Authorization Policy
7. Roufosse F, Kahn JE, Rothenberg ME, et al. Efficacy and safety of mepolizumab in
hypereosinophilic syndrome: a phase III, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. J Allergy Clin
Immunol. 2020;146(6):1397-1405.
8. Global Initiative for Asthma. Global strategy for asthma management and prevention. Updated
2025. Available at: http://www.ginasthma.org. Accessed on May 29, 2025.
9. Chung KF, Wenzel SE, Brozek JL, et al. International ERS/ATS guidelines on definition, evaluation,
and treatment of severe asthma. Eur Respir J. 2014;43:343-373.
10. Holguin F, Cardet JC, Chung KF, et al. Management of severe asthma: a European Respiratory
Society/American Thoracic Society Guideline. Eur Respir J. 2020;55:1900588.
11. Rank MA, Chu DK, Bognanni A, et al. Joint Task Force on Practice Parameters GRADE guidelines
for the medical management of chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis. J Allergy Clin Immunol.
2023;151(2):386-398.
12. Peters AT, Spector S, Hsu J, et al. Diagnosis and management of rhinosinusitis: a practice
parameter update. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2014:347-385.
13. Dykewicz MS, Wallace DV, Baroody F, et al. Treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis: an evidenced-
based focused 2017 guideline update. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2017;119(6):489-511.
14. Joint Task Force on Practice Parameters: American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology
and the American College of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology. Rhinitis 2020: a practice
parameter update. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2020;146:721-767.
15. Rosenfeld RM, Piccirillo JF, Chandrasekhar SS, et al. Clinical practice guideline (update): adult
sinusitis. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2015;152(2S):S1-S39.
16. Chung SA, Langford CA, Maz M, et al. 2021 American College of Rheumatology/Vasculitis
Foundation guideline for the management of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated
vasculitis. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2021;73(8):1088-1105).
17. Hellmich B, Sanchez-Alamo B, Schirmer JH, et al. EULAR recommendations for the management of
ANCA-associated vasculitis: 2022 update. Ann Rheum Dis. 2024;83(1):30-47.
18. Shomali W, Gotlib J. World Health Organization, and international consensus classification of
eosinophilic disorders: 2024 update on diagnosis, risk stratification, and management. Am J
Hematol. 2024;99(5):946-968.
19. Oldhoff JM, Darsow U, Werfel T, et al. Anti-IL-5 recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody
(mepolizumab) for the treatment of atopic dermatitis. Allergy. 2005;60(5):693-696.
20. Oldhoff JM, Darsow U, Werfel T, et al. No effect of anti-interleukin-5 therapy (mepolizumab) on
the atopy patch test in atopic dermatitis patients. Int Arch Allergy Immunol. 2006;141(3):290-
294.
21. Kang EG, Narayana PK, Pouliguen IJ, et al. Efficacy and safety of mepolizumab administered
subcutaneously for moderate to severe atopic dermatitis. Allergy. 2020;75(4):950-953.
22. Pavord ID, Chanez P, Criner GJ, et al. Mepolizumab for eosinophilic chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease. N Engl J Med. 2017;377(17):1613-1629.
23. Sciurba FC, Criner GJ, Christenson SA, et al. Mepolizumab to prevent exacerbations of COPD with
an eosinophilic phenotype. N Engl J Med. 2025;392;1710-1720.
24. Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease. Global strategy for the diagnosis,
management, and prevention of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: 2025 report. Global
Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease. Available from: http://goldcopd.org/. Accessed on
May 30, 2025.
25. Stein ML, Collins MH, Villanueva JM, et al. Anti-IL-5 (mepolizumab) therapy for eosinophilic
esophagitis. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2006;118(6):1312-1319.
26. Straumann A, Conus S, Grzonka P, et al. Anti-interleukin-5 antibody treatment (mepolizumab) in
active eosinophilic esophagitis: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial. Gut.
2010;59:21-30.
27. Assa’ad AH, Gupta SK, Collins MH, et al. An antibody against IL-5 reduces numbers of esophageal
intraepithelial eosinophils in children with eosinophilic esophagitis. Gastroenterology.
2011;141(5):1593-1604.
28. Dellon ES, Peterson KA, Mitlyng BL, et al. Mepolizumab for treatment of adolescents and adults
with eosinophilic oesophagitis: a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
clinical trial. Gut. 2023;72(10):1828-1837.
29. Dellon ES, Muir AB, Katzka DA, et al. ACG Clinical Guideline: Diagnosis and Management of
Eosinophilic Esophagitis. Am J Gastrenterol. 2025;120(1):31-59.
30. Wechsler ME, Nair P, Terrier B, et al. Benralizumab versus mepolizumab for eosinophilic
granulomatosis with polyangiitis. New Engl J Med. 2024;390(10):911-921.
Page 12 of 13 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Immunologicals – Nucala Prior Authorization Policy
History
Type of Summary of Changes Review
Revision Date
Annual Revision Conditions Not Covered: Criteria were updated to clarify that use 03/22/2023
of Nucala with another monoclonal antibody therapy is specific to
Cinqair, Fasenra, Dupixent, Tezspire, Xolair, and Adbry.
Selected Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps: Approval condition 02/14/2024
Revision updated from “Nasal Polyps” to “Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal
Polyps.” Duration of the intranasal corticosteroid requirement was
changed from 3 months to 4 weeks.
Annual Revision Asthma: Removed leukotriene receptor antagonists as an example 04/19/2024
of additional asthma controller or asthma maintenance medications.
Selected Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis: Criteria 07/17/2024
Revision requiring the patient to have tried a minimum of 4 weeks of
corticosteroid therapy were clarified to require the patient be
currently receiving a systemic corticosteroid and have been on
therapy for a minimum of 4 weeks.
Selected Asthma: Eosinophil level requirements were clarified to require a 10/02/2024
Revision level ≥ 150 cells/microliter either within the previous 6 weeks OR
prior to treatment with a monoclonal antibody that may alter
eosinophil levels. Previously, criteria required a level ≥ 150
cells/microliter either within the previous 6 weeks OR within 6 weeks
prior to treatment with a monoclonal antibody that may lower
eosinophil levels.
Eosinophilic Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis: Initial approval
duration was changed from 6 months to 9 months. Eosinophil level
requirements were clarified to require a level ≥ 150 cells/microliter
either within the previous 4 weeks OR prior to treatment with a
monoclonal antibody that may alter eosinophil levels. Previously,
criteria required a level ≥ 150 cells/microliter either within the
previous 6 weeks OR within 6 weeks prior to treatment with a
monoclonal antibody that may lower eosinophil levels.
Hypereosinophilic Syndrome: Eosinophil level requirements were
clarified that the level be taken prior to treatment with any
monoclonal antibody therapy that may alter blood eosinophil levels.
Previously, criteria required the level to be taken prior to any
monoclonal antibody therapy that may lower blood eosinophil levels.
Throughout the policy, Ebglyss (lebrikizumab-lbkz subcutaneous
injection) and Nemluvio (nemolizumab-ilto subcutaneous injection)
were added to notes as examples of monoclonal antibody therapies.
Annual Revision No criteria changes. 04/09/2025
Early Annual Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD): This new 06/04/2025
Revision condition and criteria for approval were added to the policy. New
approval criteria for this indication were added that include an age
requirement, an eosinophil requirement, a trial of inhaled therapies,
a history of COPD exacerbations, and specialist involvement.
Conditions Not Covered, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
Disease: Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease was removed
from the “Conditions Not Covered”.
"Cigna Companies" refers to operating subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. All products and services are
provided exclusively by or through such operating subsidiaries, including Cigna Health and Life Insurance
Company, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Evernorth Behavioral Health, Inc., Cigna Health
Management, Inc., and HMO or service company subsidiaries of The Cigna Group.© 2025 The Cigna
Group.
Page 13 of 13 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Immunologicals – Nucala Prior Authorization Policy