PRIOR AUTHORIZATION POLICY
POLICY: Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
• Dupixent® (dupilumab subcutaneous injection – Regeneron/sanofi-
aventis)
REVIEW DATE: 04/23/2025; selected revision 06/04/2025 and 07/02/2025
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
THE FOLLOWING COVERAGE POLICY APPLIES TO HEALTH BENEFIT PLANS ADMINISTERED BY CIGNA COMPANIES. CERTAIN CIGNA
COMPANIES AND/OR LINES OF BUSINESS ONLY PROVIDE UTILIZATION REVIEW SERVICES TO CLIENTS AND DO NOT MAKE COVERAGE
DETERMINATIONS. REFERENCES TO STANDARD BENEFIT PLAN LANGUAGE AND COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS DO NOT APPLY TO THOSE
CLIENTS. COVERAGE POLICIES ARE INTENDED TO PROVIDE GUIDANCE IN INTERPRETING CERTAIN STANDARD BENEFIT PLANS
ADMINISTERED BY CIGNA COMPANIES. PLEASE NOTE, THE TERMS OF A CUSTOMER'S PARTICULAR BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT [GROUP
SERVICE AGREEMENT, EVIDENCE OF COVERAGE, CERTIFICATE OF COVERAGE, SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION (SPD) OR SIMILAR PLAN
DOCUMENT] MAY DIFFER SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THE STANDARD BENEFIT PLANS UPON WHICH THESE COVERAGE POLICIES ARE BASED. FOR
EXAMPLE, A CUSTOMER'S BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT MAY CONTAIN A SPECIFIC EXCLUSION RELATED TO A TOPIC ADDRESSED IN A COVERAGE
POLICY. IN THE EVENT OF A CONFLICT, A CUSTOMER'S BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT ALWAYS SUPERSEDES THE INFORMATION IN THE
COVERAGE POLICIES. IN THE ABSENCE OF A CONTROLLING FEDERAL OR STATE COVERAGE MANDATE, BENEFITS ARE ULTIMATELY
DETERMINED BY THE TERMS OF THE APPLICABLE BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT. COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS IN EACH SPECIFIC INSTANCE
REQUIRE CONSIDERATION OF 1) THE TERMS OF THE APPLICABLE BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT IN EFFECT ON THE DATE OF SERVICE; 2) ANY
APPLICABLE LAWS/REGULATIONS; 3) ANY RELEVANT COLLATERAL SOURCE MATERIALS INCLUDING COVERAGE POLICIES AND; 4) THE
SPECIFIC FACTS OF THE PARTICULAR SITUATION. EACH COVERAGE REQUEST SHOULD BE REVIEWED ON ITS OWN MERITS. MEDICAL
DIRECTORS ARE EXPECTED TO EXERCISE CLINICAL JUDGMENT WHERE APPROPRIATE AND HAVE DISCRETION IN MAKING INDIVIDUAL
COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS. WHERE COVERAGE FOR CARE OR SERVICES DOES NOT DEPEND ON SPECIFIC CIRCUMSTANCES,
REIMBURSEMENT WILL ONLY BE PROVIDED IF A REQUESTED SERVICE(S) IS SUBMITTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RELEVANT CRITERIA
OUTLINED IN THE APPLICABLE COVERAGE POLICY, INCLUDING COVERED DIAGNOSIS AND/OR PROCEDURE CODE(S). REIMBURSEMENT IS
NOT ALLOWED FOR SERVICES WHEN BILLED FOR CONDITIONS OR DIAGNOSES THAT ARE NOT COVERED UNDER THIS COVERAGE POLICY
(SEE "CODING INFORMATION" BELOW). WHEN BILLING, PROVIDERS MUST USE THE MOST APPROPRIATE CODES AS OF THE EFFECTIVE
DATE OF THE SUBMISSION. CLAIMS SUBMITTED FOR SERVICES THAT ARE NOT ACCOMPANIED BY COVERED CODE(S) UNDER THE APPLICABLE
COVERAGE POLICY WILL BE DENIED AS NOT COVERED. COVERAGE POLICIES RELATE EXCLUSIVELY TO THE ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH
BENEFIT PLANS. COVERAGE POLICIES ARE NOT RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TREATMENT AND SHOULD NEVER BE USED AS TREATMENT
GUIDELINES. IN CERTAIN MARKETS, DELEGATED VENDOR GUIDELINES MAY BE USED TO SUPPORT MEDICAL NECESSITY AND OTHER
COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS.
CIGNA NATIONAL FORMULARY COVERAGE:
OVERVIEW
Dupixent, an interleukin-4 receptor alpha antagonist, is indicated for the following uses:1
• Asthma, as an add-on maintenance treatment in patients ≥ 6 years of age with
moderate-to-severe disease with an eosinophilic phenotype or with oral
corticosteroid-dependent asthma.
Limitation of Use: Dupixent is not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm or
status asthmaticus.
• Atopic dermatitis, for the treatment of patients ≥ 6 months of age with moderate-
to-severe disease not adequately controlled with topical prescription therapies or
when those therapies are not advisable.
• Bullous pemphigoid, for the treatment of patients ≥ 18 years of age.
• Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), as add-on maintenance
treatment in patients ≥ 18 years of age with inadequately controlled disease and
an eosinophilic phenotype.
Limitation of Use: Dupixent is not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm.
Page 1 of 19 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
• Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis (CRSwNP) [i.e., nasal polyps], as
an add-on maintenance treatment in patients ≥ 12 years of age with inadequately
controlled disease.
• Chronic spontaneous urticaria, in patients ≥ 12 years of age who remain
symptomatic despite H1 antihistamine treatment.
Limitation of Use: Dupixent is not indicated for the treatment of other forms of
urticaria.
• Eosinophilic esophagitis, in patients ≥ 1 year of age who weigh ≥ 15 kg.
• Prurigo nodularis, for the treatment of patients ≥ 18 years of age.
Clinical Efficacy
Asthma
Timing of efficacy assessments varied by indication across the numerous pivotal studies in
which Dupixent demonstrated benefit. In the asthma trials, efficacy with Dupixent was
assessed as early as 24 weeks.2-5
Atopic Dermatitis
In atopic dermatitis, the majority of studies evaluated the efficacy of Dupixent at 16
weeks.1,6-10 There are data with Dupixent in patients ≥ 6 months of age. Additionally, one
study evaluated Dupixent in patients ≥ 12 years of age with atopic dermatitis with
moderate to severe hand and/or foot involvement.1,44
Bullous Pemphigoid
One pivotal study, evaluated Dupixent for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe
bullous pemphigoid.41,42
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Two pivotal studies evaluated Dupixent in adults with COPD.11,12 To be eligible for
enrollment, patients had a blood eosinophil level ≥ 300 cells per microliter. Patients were
required to have been receiving background triple inhaler therapy (i.e., an inhaled
corticosteroid [ICS] with a long-acting muscarinic antagonist [LAMA] and a long-acting
beta2-agonist [LABA]) or LAMA/LABA combination therapy if the patient had an ICS
contraindication, for at least 3 months prior to randomization. Patients also had
experienced at least two moderate COPD exacerbations (e.g., resulted in systemic
corticosteroid treatment) or one severe COPD exacerbation (e.g., resulted in hospitalization
for≥ 24 hours) the year prior to screening. Overall, at least one of the patient’s
exacerbations had to have occurred while they were receiving ICS/LAMA/LABA therapy (or a
LAMA/LABA if the patient had an ICS contraindication). Patients were randomized to
receive either Dupixent or placebo in addition to background maintenance therapy (i.e.,
ICS/LAMA/LABA triple therapy or LAMA/LABA therapy if the patient had an ICS
contraindication) for 52 weeks. While lung function parameters were improved as early as
Week 12 (3 months), the other major efficacy endpoints were evaluated at Week 52 (e.g.,
exacerbations, dyspnea scores).
Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps
The pivotal studies involving patients with CRSwNP evaluated the primary efficacy endpoints
following 24 weeks of treatment.1,13-15 Patients continued treatment with intranasal
corticosteroids throughout the studies.
Chronic Spontaneous Urticaria
The pivotal studies of Dupixent in patients with chronic spontaneous urticaria involved
patients who were symptomatic despite H1 antihistamine treatment at approved or higher
doses.16,38 In both studies, patients were required to have experienced itch and hives for >
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
6 consecutive weeks, despite treatment with an H1 antihistamine up to 4 times a standard
dose. The primary efficacy endpoints were evaluated following 24 weeks of treatment.
Eosinophilic Esophagitis
In Dupixent’s eosinophilic esophagitis pivotal study, patients ≥ 12 years of age were
required to have disease confirmed by baseline endoscopic biopsies with a demonstration of
eosinophilic infiltration on central reading (peak cell count ≥ 15 eosinophils per high-
powered field) that was unresponsive to an 8 week course of treatment with a high-dose
proton pump inhibitor.17 Patients with other causes of eosinophilic esophagitis, such as
hypereosinophilic syndrome and eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis, were
excluded from the study. In the first portion of this study, efficacy, as measured by
objective assessments (e.g., intraepithelial eosinophil count) and subjective assessments
(e.g., dysphagia symptoms), was evaluated after 24 weeks (6 months) of Dupixent therapy.
A very similarly designed pivotal study evaluated the efficacy of Dupixent for the treatment
of eosinophilic esophagitis in patients 1 to 11 years of age.1,18 Endoscopic biopsy evidence
of eosinophilic infiltration despite treatment with a proton pump inhibitor was again required
for study enrollment.
Prurigo Nodularis
Two pivotal studies, PRIME and PRIME2, evaluated Dupixent’s efficacy in the treatment of
prurigo nodularis.19 To enroll, patients were required to have ≥ 20 identifiable nodular
lesions in total on both legs, and/or both arms, and/or trunk and to have failed a 2-week
trial of a topical corticosteroid. Patients with prurigo nodularis secondary to medications or
a medical condition such as neuropathy or psychiatric disease were excluded from the
studies. The primary endpoint was evaluated at Week 24 in PRIME and initially at Week 12
and again at Week 24 in PRIME2.
Guidelines
Asthma Guidelines
The Global Initiative for Asthma Global Strategy for Asthma Management and Prevention
(2025) proposes a stepwise approach to asthma treatment.20 Dupixent is listed as an
option for add-on therapy in patients ≥ 6 years of age with severe eosinophilic/Type 2
asthma or who require treatment with a maintenance oral corticosteroid. Severe asthma is
defined as asthma that is uncontrolled despite adherence to optimized high-dose ICS/LABA
therapy or that worsens when high-dose treatment is decreased. Higher blood eosinophil
levels and higher fractional concentration of exhaled nitric oxide may predict a good asthma
response to Dupixent.
According to the European Respiratory Society/American Thoracic Society guidelines (2014;
updated in 2020), severe asthma is defined as asthma which requires treatment with a
high-dose inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) in addition to a second controller medication (and/or
systemic corticosteroids) to prevent it from becoming uncontrolled, or asthma which
remains uncontrolled despite this therapy.21,22 Uncontrolled asthma is defined as asthma
that worsens upon tapering of high-dose ICS or systemic corticosteroids or asthma that
meets one of the following four criteria:
1) Poor symptom control: Asthma Control Questionnaire consistently ≥ 1.5 or Asthma
Control Test < 20; OR
2) Frequent severe exacerbations: two or more bursts of systemic corticosteroids in
the previous year; OR
3) Serious exacerbations: at least one hospitalization, intensive care unit stay, or
mechanical ventilation in the previous year; OR
4) Airflow limitation: forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) < 80% predicted
after appropriate bronchodilator withholding.
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
Atopic Dermatitis Guidelines
Guidelines for the care and management of atopic dermatitis (with topical therapies in
adults [2022], with phototherapy and systemic agents [2023]) have been updated to
address Dupixent.23,24 The guidelines note that despite the availability of newer, systemic
therapies (e.g., Dupixent), topical agents remain the mainstay of treatment due to their
proven track record and favorable safety profiles. Several topical agents are recommended,
with topical corticosteroids commonly used first-line for mild to severe atopic dermatitis in
all skin regions. If topical therapy and basic management (e.g., moisturizers, bathing
modifications) have been optimized and the patient has not achieved adequate control,
consider an alternative diagnosis or systemic therapy. In this setting, use of Dupixent is
recommended in patients with moderate to severe disease (strong recommendation).
Bullous Pemphigoid Guidelines
Guidelines for the management of bullous pemphigoid from the European Academy of
Dermatology and Venereology (EADV) [2022] have not been updated since the approval of
Dupixent for this indication.43 However, Dupixent is a recommended treatment option.
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Guidelines
The Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) Global Strategy for the
Diagnosis, Management, and Prevention of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (2025)
recommends triple inhaled therapy with an ICS/LAMA/LABA combination in patients with a
history of exacerbations and elevated eosinophils.25 However, guidelines note that ICS
therapy increases the risk of pneumonia in patients with COPD, particularly those with
severe disease. Dupixent is a recommended treatment option in patients who continue to
have symptoms despite ICS/LAMA/LABA therapy and have eosinophils ≥ 300 cells/microliter
and symptoms of chronic bronchitis.
Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps Guidelines
The Joint Task Force on Practice Parameters (JTFPP) published a focused guideline update
for the medical management of CRSwNP (2023), which updated recommendations
regarding intranasal corticosteroids and biologic therapies.26 Intranasal corticosteroids are
recommended for the treatment of CRSwNP. Use of biologics (e.g., Dupixent) is also
recommended. However, in patients who derived a sufficient benefit from other therapies
such as intranasal corticosteroids, surgery, or aspirin therapy after desensitization, biologics
may not be preferred. Conversely, biologics may be preferred over other medical treatment
options in patients who continue to have a high burden of disease despite receiving at least
4 weeks of treatment with an intranasal corticosteroid.
The diagnosis of CRSwNP was not addressed in this focused guideline update, but previous
guidelines have noted that the presence of two or more signs and symptoms of chronic
rhinosinusitis (e.g., rhinorrhea, postnasal drainage, anosmia, nasal congestion, facial pain,
headache, fever, cough, and purulent discharge) that persist for an extended period of time
makes the diagnosis chronic rhinosinusitis likely.27-30 However, this requires confirmation of
sinonasal inflammation, which can either be done via direct visualization or computed
tomography (CT) scan. Oral corticosteroids and surgical intervention were not specifically
addressed in this update, but prior guidelines recommend short courses of oral
corticosteroid as needed and consideration of surgical removal as an adjunct to medical
therapy in patients with CRSwNP that is not responsive or is poorly responsive to medical
therapy.27,28,30
Chronic Spontaneous Urticaria Guidelines
Guidelines for the definition, classification, diagnosis, and management of urticaria have
been published by the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology/Global Allergy
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
and Asthma European Network/European Dermatology Forum/Asia Pacific Association of
Allergy, Asthma and Clinical Immunology (2022).31 The American Academy of Dermatology
was involved in the development of these guidelines and endorses their recommendations.
Chronic spontaneous urticaria is defined as the appearance of wheals, angioedema, or both
for > 6 weeks due to known or unknown causes. Signs and symptoms may be present
daily/almost daily or have an intermittent recurrent course. Second generation H1-
antihistamines taken regularly are the recommended first-line treatment for all types of
urticaria following elimination of possible underlying causes. If standard doses do not
eliminate urticaria signs and symptoms, the dose of the antihistamine should be increased
up to 4-fold. Guidelines have not been updated since the approval of Dupixent. Short
courses of rescue systemic corticosteroids are recommended for treatment of patients with
acute exacerbations of chronic urticaria. However, guidelines recommend against the long-
term use of systemic steroids.
Eosinophilic Esophagitis Guidelines
Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of EoE from the American College of
Gastroenterology (2025) confirm that the diagnosis of EoE should be based on the presence
esophageal dysfunction symptoms and ≥ 15 eosinophils per high-power field on esophageal
biopsy.32 Treatment with a proton pump inhibitor is recommended. Dupixent is a
recommended treatment for patients who are ≥ 1 year of age who are nonresponsive to
proton pump inhibitor therapy. A food elimination diet is recommended. However, it is
noted that patient preferences should be taken into account and that any decisions
regarding diet should be agreed upon between the patient and the provider.
Prurigo Nodularis Guidelines
A United States Expert Panel Consensus provides a practical approach for the diagnosis and
management of prurigo nodularis (2021).33 The primary findings in patients with prurigo
nodularis are the presence of firm, nodular lesions; pruritus lasting at least 6 weeks; and
history or signs, or both, of repeated scratching, picking, or rubbing. Goals of treatment are
to reduce pruritus, interrupt the itch-scratch cycle, and completely heal prurigo nodularis
lesions.
POLICY STATEMENT
Prior Authorization is recommended for prescription benefit coverage of Dupixent. All
approvals are provided for the duration noted below. In cases where the approval is
authorized in months, 1 month is equal to 30 days. Because of the specialized skills
required for evaluation and diagnosis of patients treated with Dupixent as well as the
monitoring required for adverse events and long-term efficacy, initial approval
requires Dupixent to be prescribed by or in consultation with a physician who
specializes in the condition being treated.
• Dupixent® (dupilumab subcutaneous injection – Regeneron/Sanofi-
Aventis)
is(are) covered as medically necessary when the following criteria is(are)
met for FDA-approved indication(s) or other uses with supportive evidence
(if applicable):
FDA-Approved Indications
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
1. Asthma. Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of the following (A or
B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii,
iii, iv, and v):
i. Patient is ≥ 6 years of age; AND
ii. Patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Patient meets ONE of the following (1 or 2):
(1)Patient has a blood eosinophil level ≥ 150 cells per microliter within the
previous 6 weeks; OR
(2)Patient had a blood eosinophil level ≥ 150 cells per microliter prior to
treatment with Dupixent or another monoclonal antibody therapy that
may alter blood eosinophil levels; OR
Note: Examples of monoclonal antibody therapies that may alter blood
eosinophil levels include Dupixent, Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm
subcutaneous injection), Cinqair (reslizumab intravenous infusion),
Ebglyss (lebrikizumab-lbkz subcutaneous injection), Fasenra
(benralizumab subcutaneous injection), Nemluvio (nemolizumab-ilto
subcutaneous injection), Nucala (mepolizumab subcutaneous injection),
Tezspire (tezepelumab subcutaneous injection), and Xolair (omalizumab
subcutaneous injection).
b) According to the prescriber, the patient has oral (systemic) corticosteroid-
dependent asthma (e.g., the patient has received ≥ 5 mg oral prednisone or
equivalent per day for ≥ 6 months); AND
iii. Patient has received at least 3 consecutive months of combination therapy with
BOTH of the following (a and b):
a) An inhaled corticosteroid; AND
b) At least one additional asthma controller or asthma maintenance medication;
AND
Note: Examples of additional asthma controller or asthma maintenance
medications are inhaled long-acting beta2-agonists, inhaled long-acting
muscarinic antagonists, and monoclonal antibody therapies for asthma (e.g.,
Cinqair, Fasenra, Nucala, Tezspire, and Xolair). Use of a combination inhaler
containing both an inhaled corticosteroid and additional asthma
controller/maintenance medication(s) would fulfill the requirement for both
criteria a and b.
iv. Patient has asthma that is uncontrolled or was uncontrolled at baseline as defined
by ONE of the following (a, b, c, d, or e):
Note: “Baseline” is defined as prior to receiving Dupixent or another monoclonal
antibody therapy for asthma. Examples of monoclonal antibody therapies for
asthma include Dupixent, Cinqair, Fasenra, Nucala, Tezspire, and Xolair.
a) Patient experienced two or more asthma exacerbations requiring treatment
with systemic corticosteroids in the previous year; OR
b) Patient experienced one or more asthma exacerbation(s) requiring a
hospitalization, an emergency department visit, or an urgent care visit in the
previous year; OR
c) Patient has a forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) < 80% predicted;
OR
d) Patient has an FEV1/forced vital capacity (FVC) < 0.80; OR
e) Patient has asthma that worsens upon tapering of oral (systemic)
corticosteroid therapy; AND
v. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist, immunologist,
or pulmonologist; OR
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Dupixent. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets ALL
of the following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient has already received at least 6 months of therapy with Dupixent; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is restarting
therapy with Dupixent should be considered under criterion 1A (Asthma, Initial
Therapy).
ii. Patient continues to receive therapy with one inhaled corticosteroid or one
inhaled corticosteroid-containing combination inhaler; AND
iii. Patient has responded to therapy as determined by the prescriber.
Note: Examples of a response to Dupixent therapy are decreased asthma
exacerbations; decreased asthma symptoms; decreased hospitalizations,
emergency department visits, or urgent care visits due to asthma; decreased
requirement for oral corticosteroid therapy.
2. Atopic Dermatitis. Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of the
following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 4 months if the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii,
iii, and iv):
i. Patient is ≥ 6 months of age; AND
ii. Patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Patient has atopic dermatitis involvement estimated to be ≥ 10% of the body
surface area; OR
b) Patient meets BOTH of the following (1 and 2):
1) Patient has moderate to severe hand and/or foot atopic dermatitis; AND
2) Patient is ≥ 12 years of age; AND
iii. Patient meets ALL of the following (a, b, and c):
a) Patient has tried at least one medium-, medium-high, high-, and/or super-
high-potency prescription topical corticosteroid; AND
b) This topical corticosteroid was applied daily for at least 28 consecutive days;
AND
c) According to the prescriber, inadequate efficacy was demonstrated with this
topical corticosteroid therapy; AND
iv. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist, immunologist,
or dermatologist; OR
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Dupixent. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets
BOTH of the following (i and ii):
i. Patient has already received at least 4 months of therapy with Dupixent; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 4 months of therapy or who is restarting
therapy with Dupixent should be considered under criterion 2A (Atopic
Dermatitis, Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient has responded to therapy as determined by the prescriber.
Note: Examples of a response to Dupixent therapy are marked improvements in
erythema, induration/papulation/edema, excoriations, and lichenification;
reduced pruritus; decreased requirement for other topical or systemic therapies;
reduced body surface area affected with atopic dermatitis; or other responses
observed.
3. Bullous Pemphigoid. Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of the
following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the following (i and
ii):
i. Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND
ii. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with a dermatologist; OR
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Dupixent. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets
BOTH of the following (i and ii):
i. Patient has already received at least 6 months of therapy with Dupixent; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is restarting
therapy with Dupixent should be considered under criterion 3A (Bullous
Pemphigoid, Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient has experienced a beneficial clinical response, defined by ONE of the
following (a, b, c, d, or e):
a) Decreased area of skin involvement; OR
b) Decreased lesions, including blisters or erosions (bullae); OR
c) Decreased urticaria, OR
d) Decreased erythema; OR
e) Reduced or no need for systemic or topical corticosteroid therapy.
4. Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). Approve for the duration noted if
the patient meets ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii,
iii, iv, and v):
i. Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND
ii. Patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Patient has a blood eosinophil level ≥ 300 cells per microliter within the
previous 6 weeks; OR
b) Patient had a blood eosinophil level ≥ 300 cells per microliter prior to
treatment with Dupixent or another monoclonal antibody therapy that may
alter blood eosinophil levels; AND
Note: Examples of monoclonal antibody therapies that may alter blood
eosinophil levels include Dupixent, Adbry (tralokinumab-ldrm subcutaneous
injection), Cinqair (reslizumab intravenous infusion), Ebglyss (lebrikizumab-
lbkz subcutaneous injection); Fasenra (benralizumab subcutaneous injection),
Nemluvio (nemolizumab-ilto subcutaneous injection); Nucala (mepolizumab
subcutaneous injection), Tezspire (tezepelumab subcutaneous injection), and
Xolair (omalizumab subcutaneous injection).
iii. Patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Patient has received at least 3 consecutive months of combination therapy
with ALL of the following (1, 2, and 3):
(1)Inhaled long-acting beta2-agonist (LABA); AND
(2)Inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA); AND
(3)Inhaled corticosteroid (ICS); OR
Note: Use of single-entity inhalers or a combination inhaler containing
multiple agents from the medication classes listed would fulfill the
requirement.
b) Patient meets BOTH of the following (1 and 2):
(1)Patient has received at least 3 consecutive months of combination therapy
with an inhaled LABA and an inhaled LAMA; AND
Note: Use of single-entity inhalers or a combination inhaler containing
multiple agents from the medication classes listed would fulfill the
requirement.
(2)According to the prescriber, the patient has a contraindication to the use
of an inhaled corticosteroid; AND
iv. Patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Patient experienced two or more COPD exacerbations requiring treatment
with a systemic corticosteroid with or without an antibiotic in the previous 12
months; OR
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
b) Patient experienced one or more COPD exacerbation(s) requiring a
hospitalization in the previous 12 months; AND
Note: A hospitalization includes a hospital admission or an emergency
medical care visit with observation lasting > 24 hours.
v. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist,
immunologist, or pulmonologist; OR
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Dupixent. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets the
following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient has already received at least 6 months of therapy with Dupixent; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is restarting
therapy with Dupixent should be considered under criterion 3A (Chronic
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient continues to receive combination therapy with an inhaled LABA and
LAMA; AND
Note: Use of single-entity inhalers or a combination inhaler containing multiple
agents from the medication classes listed would fulfill the requirement.
iii. Patient has experienced a beneficial clinical response, defined by ONE of the
following (a, b, c, d, or e):
a) Reduced COPD symptoms; OR
b) Reduced COPD exacerbations; OR
c) Reduced COPD-related hospitalizations; OR
d) Reduced emergency department or urgent care visits; OR
e) Improved lung function parameters.
5. Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps. Approve for the duration noted if the
patient meets ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii,
iii, iv, v, and vi):
i. Patient is ≥ 12 years of age; AND
ii. Patient has chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps as evidenced by direct
examination, endoscopy, or sinus computed tomography (CT) scan; AND
iii. Patient has experienced two or more of the following symptoms for at least 6
months: nasal congestion, nasal obstruction, nasal discharge, and/or
reduction/loss of smell; AND
iv. Patient meets BOTH of the following (a and b):
a) Patient has received at least 4 weeks of therapy with an intranasal
corticosteroid; AND
b) Patient will continue to receive therapy with an intranasal corticosteroid
concomitantly with Dupixent; AND
v. Patient meets ONE of the following (a, b, or c):
a) Patient has received at least one course of treatment with a systemic
corticosteroid for 5 days or more within the previous 2 years; OR
b) Patient has a contraindication to systemic corticosteroid therapy; OR
c) Patient has had prior surgery for nasal polyps; AND
vi. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist, immunologist,
or an otolaryngologist (ear, nose, and throat [ENT] physician specialist); OR
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Dupixent. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets ALL
of the following (i, ii, and iii):
i. Patient has already received at least 6 months of therapy with Dupixent; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is restarting
therapy with Dupixent should be considered under criterion 4A (Chronic
Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps, Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient continues to receive therapy with an intranasal corticosteroid; AND
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
iii. Patient has responded to therapy as determined by the prescriber.
Note: Examples of a response to Dupixent therapy are reduced nasal polyp size,
improved nasal congestion, reduced sinus opacification, decreased sinonasal
symptoms, improved sense of smell.
6. Chronic Spontaneous Urticaria (Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria). Approve Dupixent
for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii,
and iii):
i. Patient is ≥ 12 years of age; AND
ii. Patient has/had urticaria for > 6 weeks (prior to treatment with Dupixent), with
symptoms present > 3 days per week despite daily non-sedating H1
antihistamine therapy with doses that have been titrated up to a maximum of
four times the standard FDA-approved dose; AND
Note: Examples of non-sedating H1 antihistamine therapy are cetirizine,
desloratadine, fexofenadine, levocetirizine, and loratadine.
iii. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist, immunologist,
or dermatologist; OR
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Dupixent. Approve Dupixent for 1 year if the patient
meets BOTH the following criteria (i and ii):
i. Patient has already received at least 6 months of therapy with Dupixent; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is restarting
therapy with Dupixent should be considered under criterion 5A (Chronic
Spontaneous Urticaria [Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria], Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient has experienced a beneficial clinical response, defined by ONE of the
following (a, b, or c):
a) Decreased itch severity; OR
b) Decreased number of hives; OR
c) Decreased size of hives
7. Eosinophilic Esophagitis. Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of
the following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii,
iii, iv, v, vi and vii):
i. Patient is ≥ 1 year of age; AND
ii. Patient weighs ≥ 15 kg; AND
iii. Patient has a diagnosis of eosinophilic esophagitis as confirmed by an endoscopic
biopsy demonstrating ≥ 15 intraepithelial eosinophils per high-power field; AND
iv. Patient does not have a secondary cause of eosinophilic esophagitis; AND
Note: Examples of secondary causes of eosinophilic esophagitis are
hypereosinophilic syndrome, eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis, and
food allergy.
v. Patient has received at least 8 weeks of therapy with a proton pump inhibitor;
AND
vi. Patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Patient has tried dietary modifications to treat/manage eosinophilic
esophagitis; OR
b) The provider has determined that the patient is not an appropriate candidate
for dietary modifications; AND
Note: Examples of dietary modifications to treat eosinophilic esophagitis
include an elemental diet or an elimination diet.
vii. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist or
gastroenterologist; OR
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Dupixent. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets
BOTH of the following (i and ii):
i. Patient has already received at least 6 months of therapy with Dupixent; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is restarting
therapy with Dupixent should be considered under criterion 6A (Eosinophilic
Esophagitis, Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient has experienced a beneficial clinical response, defined by ONE of the
following (a, b, or c):
a) Reduced intraepithelial eosinophil count; OR
b) Decreased dysphagia/pain upon swallowing; OR
c) Reduced frequency/severity of food impaction.
8. Prurigo Nodularis. Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets ONE of the
following (A or B):
A) Initial Therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the following (i, ii,
iii, iv, v, and vi):
i. Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND
ii. Patient has ≥ 20 identifiable nodular lesions in total on both arms, and/or both
legs, and/or trunk; AND
iii. Patient has experienced pruritus for ≥ 6 weeks; AND
iv. Patient meets ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Patient’s prurigo nodularis is NOT medication-induced or secondary to a non-
dermatologic condition such as neuropathy or a psychiatric disease; OR
b) According to the prescriber, the patient has a secondary cause of prurigo
nodularis that has been identified and adequately managed; AND
v. Patient meets ALL of the following (a, b, and c):
a) Patient has tried at least one high- or super-high-potency prescription topical
corticosteroid; AND
b) This topical corticosteroid was applied daily for at least 14 consecutive days;
AND
c) According to the prescriber, inadequate efficacy was demonstrated with this
topical corticosteroid therapy; AND
vi. The medication is prescribed by or in consultation with an allergist, immunologist,
or dermatologist; OR
B) Patient is Currently Receiving Dupixent. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets
BOTH of the following (i and ii):
i. Patient has already received at least 6 months of therapy with Dupixent; AND
Note: A patient who has received < 6 months of therapy or who is restarting
therapy with Dupixent should be considered under criterion 6A (Prurigo
Nodularis, Initial Therapy).
ii. Patient has experienced a beneficial clinical response, defined by ONE of the
following (a, b, or c):
a) Reduced nodular lesion count; OR
b) Decreased pruritus; OR
c) Reduced nodular lesion size.
CONDITIONS NOT COVERED
• Dupixent® (dupilumab subcutaneous injection – Regeneron/Sanofi-Aventis)
is(are) considered not medically necessary for ANY other use(s) including the
following (this list may not be all inclusive; criteria will be updated as newly
published data are available):
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
1. Concurrent Use of Dupixent with another Monoclonal Antibody Therapy. The
efficacy and safety of Dupixent in combination with other monoclonal antibody therapies
have not been established.
Note: Monoclonal antibody therapies are Adbry® (tralokinumab-ldrm subcutaneous
injection), Cinqair® (reslizumab intravenous injection), Ebglyss® (lebrikizumab-lbkz
subcutaneous injection), Fasenra® (benralizumab subcutaneous injection), Nemluvio®
(nemolizumab-ilto subcutaneous injection), Nucala® (mepolizumab subcutaneous
injection), Tezspire® (tezepelumab-ekko subcutaneous injection), or Xolair®
(omalizumab subcutaneous injection).
2. Concurrent Use of Dupixent with Janus Kinase (JAK) Inhibitors (oral or
topical). Use of JAK inhibitors is not recommended for use in combination with other
JAK inhibitors, biologic immunomodulators (e.g., Dupixent), or with other
immunosuppressants.34-37
Note: Examples of JAK inhibitors are Cibinqo® (abrocitinib tablets), Leqselvi™
(deuruxolitinib tablets), Rinvoq®/Rinvoq® LQ (upadacitinib extended-release tablets and
oral solution), and Opzelura™ (ruxolitinib cream).
3. Peanut Allergy. Dupixent is not indicated for the management of patients with peanut
allergy.1 One phase II, single-arm, open-label study evaluated Dupixent in children and
adolescents with peanut allergy (n = 24).39 Following 24 weeks of therapy, Dupixent
monotherapy did not improve desensitization to peanut exposure after food challenge.
Only 2 patients (8.3%) were able to achieve the primary endpoint of passing the 24-
week double-blind placebo-controlled food challenge (DBPCFC) [≥ 444 mg {cumulative}
of peanut protein]. Another 8 patients (33.3%) experienced a grade 2 allergic reaction
at the 24-week DBPCFC and 10 patients (41.7%) used epinephrine rescue medication.
An additional study (n = 128) evaluated whether Dupixent enhances the efficacy and
safety of an oral immunotherapy product, Palforzia® (peanut [Arachis hypogaea]
allergen powder-dnfp for oral administration), in patients 6 to ≤ 17 years of age with
peanut allergy.40 Patients received either Dupixent + Palforzia or placebo + Palforzia
during a 28- to 40-week up-dosing period. Then, patients in the Dupixent + Palforzia
group were re-randomized to receive Dupixent + Palforzia or placebo + Palforzia during
a 24-week maintenance period. Following the up-dosing period, Dupixent + Palforzia
resulted in a modest increase in efficacy vs. placebo + Palforzia (20.2% increase in the
number of patients who passed a DBPCFC [2,044 mg peanut protein {cumulative}] with
Dupixent + Palforzia vs. placebo + Palforzia). Similarly, during the maintenance period,
Dupixent + Palforzia increased the number of patients who passed the DBPCFC (2,044
mg peanut protein [cumulative]) vs. placebo + Palforzia (16.6% treatment difference).
However, Dupixent was not found to provide protection against Palforiza-related
anaphylaxis, which occurred in 5.1% of patients receiving Dupixent + Palforzia and
4.0% of patients receiving placebo + Palforzia. Additional studies are needed to
establish the efficacy of Dupixent for peanut allergy.
REFERENCES
1. Dupixent® subcutaneous injection [prescribing information]. Tarrytown, NY:
Regeneron/sanofi-aventis; September 2024.
2. Castro M, Corren J, Pavord ID, et al. Dupilumab efficacy and safety in moderate-to-
severe uncontrolled asthma. N Engl J Med. 2018;378(26);2486-2496.
3. Wenzel S, Castro M, Corren J, et al. Dupilumab efficacy and safety in adults with
uncontrolled persistent asthma despite use of medium-to-high-dose inhaled
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
corticosteroids plus a long-acting β2 agonist: a randomised double-blind placebo-
controlled pivotal phase 2b dose-ranging trial. Lancet. 2016;388(10039):31-44.
4. Rabe KF, Nair P, Brusselle G, et al. Efficacy and safety of dupilumab in glucocorticoid-
dependent severe asthma. N Engl J Med. 2018;378(26):2475-2485.
5. Bacharier LB, Maspero JF, Katelaris CH, et al. Dupilumab in children with uncontrolled
moderate-to-severe asthma. N Engl J Med. 2021;385(24):2230-2240.
6. Simpson EL, Bieber T, Guttman-Yassky E, et al. Two phase 3 trials of dupilumab versus
placebo in atopic dermatitis. N Engl J Med. 2016;375(24):2335-2348.
7. Blauvelt A, de Bruin-Weller M, Gooderham M, et al. Long-term management of
moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis with dupilumab and concomitant topical
corticosteroids (LIBERTY AD CHRONOS): a 1-year, randomised, double-blinded, placebo-
controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet. 2017;389:2287-2303.
8. Simpson EL, Paller AS, Siegfried EC, et al. Efficacy and safety of dupilumab in
adolescents with uncontrolled moderate to severe atopic dermatitis: a phase 3
randomized clinical trial. JAMA Dermatol. 2020;156(1):44-56.
9. Paller AS, Siegfried EC, Thaci D, et al. Efficacy and safety of dupilumab with
concomitant topical corticosteroids in children 6 to 11 years old with severe atopic
dermatitis: a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled phase 3 trial. J Am Acad
Dermatol. 2020;83(5):1282-1293.
10. Paller AS, Simpson EL, Siegfried EC, et al. Dupilumab in children aged 6 months to
younger than 6 years with uncontrolled atopic dermatitis: a randomised, double-blind,
placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet. 2022;400:908-919.
11. Bhatt SP, Rabe KF, Hanania NA, et al. Dupilumab for COPD with type 2 inflammation
indicated by eosinophil counts. N Engl J Med. 2023;289(3):205-214.
12. Bhatt SP, Rabe KF, Hanania NA, et al. Dupilumab for COPD with blood eosinophil
evidence of type 2 inflammation. N Engl J Med. 2024;390(24):2274-2283.
13. Bachert C, Han JK, Desrosiers M, et al. Efficacy and safety of dupilumab in patients with
severe chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (LIBERTY NP SINUS-24 and LIBERTY NP
SINUS-52): results from two multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
parallel-group phase3 trials. Lancet. 2019;394(10209):1638-1650.
14. Bachert C, Mannent L, Naclerio RM, et al. Effect of subcutaneous dupilumab on nasal
polyp burden in patients with chronic sinusitis and nasal polyposis: a randomized clinical
trial. JAMA. 2016;315(5):469-479.
15. Jonstam K, Swanson BN, Mannent L, et al. Dupilumab reduces local type 2 pro-
inflammatory biomarkers in chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis. Allergy.
2019;74(4):743-752.
16. Maurer M, Casale TB, Saini SS, et al. Dupilumab in patients with chronic spontaneous
urticaria (LIBERTY_CSU CUPID): two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
phase 3 trials. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2024;154(1):184-194.
17. Dellon ES, Rothenberg ME, Collins MH, et al. Dupilumab in adults with adolescents with
eosinophilic esophagitis. N Engl J Med. 2022;387(25):2317-2330.
18. Chehade M, Dellon ES, Spergel JM, et al. Dupilumab for eosinophilic esophagitis in
patients 1 to 11 years of age. N Engl J Med. 2024;390(24):2239-2251.
19. Yosipovitch G, Mollanazar N, Stander S, et al. Dupilumab in patients with prurigo
nodularis: two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 3 trials. Nat Med.
2023;29(5):1180-1190.
20. Global Initiative for Asthma. Global strategy for asthma management and prevention.
Updated 2025. Available at: http://www.ginasthma.org. Accessed on March 29, 2025.
21. Chung KF, Wenzel SE, Brozek JL, et al. International ERS/ATS guidelines on definition,
evaluation and treatment of severe asthma. Eur Respir J. 2014;43:343-373.
22. Holguin F, Cardet JC, Chung KF, et al. Management of severe asthma: a European
Respiratory Society/American Thoracic Society Guideline. Eur Respir J.
2020;55:1900588.
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
23. Davis DMR, Drucker AM, Alikhan A, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of
atopic dermatitis in adults with phototherapy and systemic therapies. J Am Acad
Dermatol. 2024;90(2):e43-e56.
24. Sidbury R, Alikhan A, Cohen DE, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of atopic
dermatitis in adults with topical therapies. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2023;89(e1-e20).
25. Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease. Global strategy for the diagnosis,
management, and prevention of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. National
Institutes of Health, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute; 2025. Available at:
https://goldcopd.org/gold-reports/. Accessed on April 8, 2025.
26. Rank MA, Chu DK, Bognanni A, et al. Joint Task Force on Practice Parameters GRADE
guidelines for the medical management of chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis. J
Allergy Clin Immunol. 2023;151(2):386-398.
27. Peters AT, Spector S, Hsu J, et al. Diagnosis and management of rhinosinusitis: a
practice parameter update. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2014:347-385.
28. Dykewicz MS, Wallace DV, Baroody F, et al. Treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis: an
evidenced-based focused 2017 guideline update. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol.
2017;119(6):489-511.
29. Rosenfeld RM, Piccirillo JF, Chandrasekhar SS, et al. Clinical practice guideline (update):
adult sinusitis. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2015;152(2S):S1-S39.
30. Joint Task Force on Practice Parameters: American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and
Immunology and the American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology. Rhinitis
2020: a practice parameter update. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2020;146:721-767.
31. Zuberbier T, Abdul Latiff AH, Abuzakouk M, et al. The international
EAACI/GA2LEN/EuroGuiDerm/APAAACI guideline for the definition, classification,
diagnosis, and management of urticaria. Allergy. 2022;73:734-766.
32. Dellon ES, Muir AB, Katzka DA, et al. ACG Clinical Guideline: Diagnosis and
Management of Eosinophilic Esophagitis. Am J Gastrenterol. 2025;120(1):31-59.
33. Elmariah S, Kim B, Berger T, et al. Practical approaches for diagnosis and management
of prurigo nodularis: United States expert panel consensus. J Am Acad Dermatol.
2021;84(3):747-760.
34. Cibinqo® tablets [prescribing information]. New York, NY: Pfizer; December 2023.
35. Rinvoq® extended-release tablets/Rinvoq® LQ oral solution [prescribing information].
North Chicago, IL: AbbVie; March 2025.
36. Opzelura® cream [prescribing information]. Wilmington, DE: Incyte; January 2023.
37. Leqselvi™ tablets [prescribing information]. Whippany, NJ: Sun/Halo; July 2024.
38. Casale T, Saini S, Bernstein J, et al. Dupilumab significantly improves itch and hives in
patients with chronic spontaneous urticaria (CUPID Study C) [abstract LBA002].
Presented at: 2024 Annual Scientific Meeting American College of Allergy, Asthma, &
Immunology; Boston, MA; October 24-28, 2024.
39. Sindher SB, Nadeau C, Chinthrajah RS, et al. Efficacy and safety of dupilumab in
children with peanut allergy: a multicenter, open-label, phase II study. Allergy.
2025;80(1):227-237.
40. Chinthrajah RS, Sindher SB, Nadeau KC, et al. Dupilumab as an adjunct to oral
immunotherapy in pediatric patients with peanut allergy. Allergy. 2025;80(3):827-842.
41. Murrell DF, Joly P, Werth VP, et al. Study design of a phase 2/3 randomized controlled
trial of dupilumab in adults with bullous pemphigoid: LIBERTY-BP ADEPT. Adv Ther.
2024;41(7):2991-3002.
42. Werth VP, Caux F, Murrell DF, et al. Efficacy and safety of dupilumab in patients with
bullous pemphigoid: results from LIBERTY-BP ADEPT phase 2/3 study. Presented at:
the 83rd Annual Meeting of the American Academy of Dermatology (AAD); Orlando, FL;
March 7 ̶11, 2025.
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
43. Borradori L, Van Beek N, Feliciani C, et al. Updated S2 K guidelines for the management
of bullous pemphigoid initiated by the European Academy of Dermatology and
Venereology (EADV). J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2022;36(10):1689-1704.
44. Simpson EL, Silverberg JI, Worm M, et al. Dupilumab treatment improves signs,
symptoms, quality of life, and work productivity in patients with atopic hand and foot
dermatitis: results from a phase 3 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. J
Am Acad Dermatol. 2024;90(6):1190-1199.
HISTORY
Type of Summary of Changes Review
Revision Date
Annual Conditions Not Covered 03/22/2023
Revision : Criteria were updated to clarify that use of Dupixent with another
monoclonal antibody therapy is specific to Cinqair, Fasenra, Nucala,
Tezspire, Xolair, and Adbry.
Selected Conditions Not Covered 05/10/2023
Revision : Criteria were added for “Concurrent Use of Dupixent with Janus
Kinase Inhibitors (JAKis) [oral or topical]”.
Selected Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps: Approval condition 02/14/2024
Revision updated from “Nasal Polyps” to “Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal
Polyps”. Duration of the intranasal corticosteroid requirement was
changed from 3 months to 4 weeks.
Eosinophilic Esophagitis: The age of approval was reduced from ≥
12 years of age to ≥ 1 year of age. Additionally, the weight
requirement was reduced from ≥ 40 kg to ≥ 15 kg.
HISTORY (CONTINUED)
Type of Summary of Changes Review
Revision Date
Annual Asthma: Removed leukotriene receptor antagonists as an example 04/19/2024
Revision of additional asthma controller or asthma maintenance medications.
Selected Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps: The age of approval 09/25/2024
Revision was changed from ≥ 18 years of age to ≥ 12 years of age.
Asthma: Eosinophil level requirements were clarified to require a
level ≥ 150 cells/microliter either within the previous 6 weeks OR
prior to treatment with a monoclonal antibody that may alter
eosinophil levels. Previously, criteria required a level ≥ 150
cells/microliter either within the previous 6 weeks OR within 6 weeks
prior to treatment with a monoclonal antibody that may lower
eosinophil levels.
Throughout the policy, Ebglyss (lebrikizumab-lbkz subcutaneous
injection) and Nemluvio (nemolizumab-ilto subcutaneous injection)
were added to notes as examples of monoclonal antibody therapies.
Selected Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: This condition and 10/09/2024
Revision criteria for approval were added to the policy. New approval criteria
for this indication were added that include an age requirement, an
eosinophil requirement, a trial of inhaled therapies, a history of
chronic bronchitis signs or symptoms, a history of COPD
exacerbations, and specialist involvement.
Conditions Not Covered
, Concurrent Use of Dupixent with Janus Kinase (JAK)
Inhibitors (oral or topical): Leqselvi™ (deuruxolitinib tablets) and
Rinvoq® LQ (upadacitinib oral solution) were added as examples of
JAK inhibitors.
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy
Annual Chronic Spontaneous Urticaria (Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria): 04/23/2025
Revision This condition and criteria for approval were added to the policy.
New approval criteria for this indication were added that include an
age requirement, a duration of symptom requirement, a trial of H
1
antihistamine therapy, and specialist involvement.
Conditions Not Covered
, Peanut Allergy: Peanut allergy was added to the “Conditions Not
Covered”.
Selected Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: Criteria requiring the 06/04/2025
Revision patient to have signs and symptoms of chronic bronchitis were
removed. Exacerbation criteria were simplified to require the patient
to have experienced two or more COPD exacerbations requiring
treatment with a systemic corticosteroid with or without an antibiotic
in the previous 12 months or one or more COPD exacerbations
requiring a hospitalization in the previous 12 months. Previously,
these criteria required that the patient experienced two or more
COPD exacerbations requiring treatment with a systemic
corticosteroid and/or an antibiotic in the previous 12 months and one
or more of these exacerbations required treatment with a systemic
steroid and one or more of these exacerbations occurred while the
patient was receiving combination inhaled therapy. Previous criteria
also required that one or more COPD exacerbations requiring a
hospitalization in the previous 12 months had occurred while the
patient was receiving combination inhaled therapy.
Selected Atopic Dermatitis: Criteria were updated to require that the 07/02/2025
Revision patient either has atopic dermatitis involvement estimated to be ≥
10% of the body surface area OR the patient is ≥ 12 years of age
and has moderate to severe hand and/or foot atopic dermatitis.
Previously, criteria required that the patient have atopic dermatitis
involvement estimated to be ≥ 10% of the body surface area.
Bullous Pemphigoid: This condition and criteria for approval were
added to the policy.
"Cigna Companies" refers to operating subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. All products and services are
provided exclusively by or through such operating subsidiaries, including Cigna Health and Life
Insurance Company, Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Evernorth Behavioral Health, Inc.,
Cigna Health Management, Inc., and HMO or service company subsidiaries of The Cigna Group.© 2025
The Cigna Group.
2 Pages - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy:Immunologicals – Dupixent Prior Authorization Policy