PRIOR AUTHORIZATION POLICY
POLICY: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior Authorization Policy
• Genotropin (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Pfizer)
• Humatrope (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Eli Lilly)
• Norditropin® (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Novo Nordisk)
• Nutropin AQ (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Genentech)
• Omnitrope® (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Sandoz)
• Saizen® (somatropin subcutaneous injection – EMD Serono)
• Serostim (somatropin subcutaneous injection – EMD Serono)
• Zomacton™ (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Ferring)
REVIEW DATE: 04/16/2025; selected revision 04/23/2025
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
THE FOLLOWING COVERAGE POLICY APPLIES TO HEALTH BENEFIT PLANS ADMINISTERED BY CIGNA COMPANIES. CERTAIN CIGNA
COMPANIES AND/OR LINES OF BUSINESS ONLY PROVIDE UTILIZATION REVIEW SERVICES TO CLIENTS AND DO NOT MAKE COVERAGE
DETERMINATIONS. REFERENCES TO STANDARD BENEFIT PLAN LANGUAGE AND COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS DO NOT APPLY TO THOSE
CLIENTS. COVERAGE POLICIES ARE INTENDED TO PROVIDE GUIDANCE IN INTERPRETING CERTAIN STANDARD BENEFIT PLANS
ADMINISTERED BY CIGNA COMPANIES. PLEASE NOTE, THE TERMS OF A CUSTOMER'S PARTICULAR BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT [GROUP
SERVICE AGREEMENT, EVIDENCE OF COVERAGE, CERTIFICATE OF COVERAGE, SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION (SPD) OR SIMILAR PLAN
DOCUMENT] MAY DIFFER SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THE STANDARD BENEFIT PLANS UPON WHICH THESE COVERAGE POLICIES ARE BASED. FOR
EXAMPLE, A CUSTOMER'S BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT MAY CONTAIN A SPECIFIC EXCLUSION RELATED TO A TOPIC ADDRESSED IN A COVERAGE
POLICY. IN THE EVENT OF A CONFLICT, A CUSTOMER'S BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT ALWAYS SUPERSEDES THE INFORMATION IN THE
COVERAGE POLICIES. IN THE ABSENCE OF A CONTROLLING FEDERAL OR STATE COVERAGE MANDATE, BENEFITS ARE ULTIMATELY
DETERMINED BY THE TERMS OF THE APPLICABLE BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT. COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS IN EACH SPECIFIC INSTANCE
REQUIRE CONSIDERATION OF 1) THE TERMS OF THE APPLICABLE BENEFIT PLAN DOCUMENT IN EFFECT ON THE DATE OF SERVICE; 2) ANY
APPLICABLE LAWS/REGULATIONS; 3) ANY RELEVANT COLLATERAL SOURCE MATERIALS INCLUDING COVERAGE POLICIES AND; 4) THE
SPECIFIC FACTS OF THE PARTICULAR SITUATION. EACH COVERAGE REQUEST SHOULD BE REVIEWED ON ITS OWN MERITS. MEDICAL
DIRECTORS ARE EXPECTED TO EXERCISE CLINICAL JUDGMENT WHERE APPROPRIATE AND HAVE DISCRETION IN MAKING INDIVIDUAL
COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS. WHERE COVERAGE FOR CARE OR SERVICES DOES NOT DEPEND ON SPECIFIC CIRCUMSTANCES,
REIMBURSEMENT WILL ONLY BE PROVIDED IF A REQUESTED SERVICE(S) IS SUBMITTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RELEVANT CRITERIA
OUTLINED IN THE APPLICABLE COVERAGE POLICY, INCLUDING COVERED DIAGNOSIS AND/OR PROCEDURE CODE(S). REIMBURSEMENT IS
NOT ALLOWED FOR SERVICES WHEN BILLED FOR CONDITIONS OR DIAGNOSES THAT ARE NOT COVERED UNDER THIS COVERAGE POLICY
(SEE "CODING INFORMATION" BELOW). WHEN BILLING, PROVIDERS MUST USE THE MOST APPROPRIATE CODES AS OF THE EFFECTIVE
DATE OF THE SUBMISSION. CLAIMS SUBMITTED FOR SERVICES THAT ARE NOT ACCOMPANIED BY COVERED CODE(S) UNDER THE APPLICABLE
COVERAGE POLICY WILL BE DENIED AS NOT COVERED. COVERAGE POLICIES RELATE EXCLUSIVELY TO THE ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH
BENEFIT PLANS. COVERAGE POLICIES ARE NOT RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TREATMENT AND SHOULD NEVER BE USED AS TREATMENT
GUIDELINES. IN CERTAIN MARKETS, DELEGATED VENDOR GUIDELINES MAY BE USED TO SUPPORT MEDICAL NECESSITY AND OTHER
COVERAGE DETERMINATIONS.
CIGNA NATIONAL FORMULARY COVERAGE:
OVERVIEW
Indications for somatropin vary among these products. Somatropin is indicated for
the following uses:
• Growth hormone deficiency (GHD) or failure, treatment of pediatric
patients, due to an inadequate secretion of endogenous growth hormone.1-7
• Non-growth hormone deficient short stature (idiopathic short
stature), treatment, defined by height standard deviation score (SDS) ≤ -
Page 1 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
2.25, and associated with growth rates unlikely to permit attainment of adult
height in the normal range.1-4,6,7
• Adults with GHD for replacement of endogenous growth hormone.1-7
• Children with chronic kidney disease, treatment of growth failure, up to
the time of kidney transplantation.4
• Noonan syndrome, treatment of patients with short stature.3
• Prader Willi syndrome, treatment of patients with growth failure or short
stature.1,3,7
• Short stature homeobox-containing gene (SHOX) deficiency, treatment
of short stature or growth failure in children.2,6
• Small for gestational age (SGA), treatment of growth failure or short
stature in patients with no catch-up growth by age 21,7 to 4 years2,3,6
• Turner syndrome, treatment of short stature.1-4,6,7
• Human immunodefiency virus (HIV)-infected patients with wasting
or cachexia, treatment, to increase lean body mass and body weight, and
improve physical endurance.9
Growth Hormone Deficiency (GHD) in Children and Adolescents
Somatropin is indicated for the treatment of growth failure in children due to an
inadequate secretion of endogenous growth hormone.1-7 In these children with GHD,
somatropin is effective for increasing final adult height.31 Somatropin therapy is
recommended to normalize adult height and avoid extreme shortness in children and
adolescents with GHD.31 Cranial radiation often causes hypopituitarism, and GHD is
a frequent pituitary abnormality seen in children and adults who have undergone
cranial radiation.17 Children who have undergone total body irradiation in preparation
for hematopoietic stem cell transplant commonly have GHD and an impaired growth
rate; these patients can be treated successfully with growth hormone. Somatropin
therapy improves the final height of young children after total body irradiation.11
Congenital Hypopituitarism
Somatropin is used in infants and young children with congenital hypopituitarism,
that manifests in infancy with hypoglycemia, microgenitalia, hyperbilirubinemia, and
multiple anterior pituitary hormone deficiencies.31 The Pediatric Endocrine Society
guidelines suggest that GHD due to congenital hypopituitarism be diagnosed without
formal growth hormone provocative testing in a newborn with hypoglycemia who
does not attain a serum growth hormone concentration > 5 mcg/L (> 5 ng/mL) and
has deficiency of at least one additional pituitary hormone and/or the classical
imaging triad (ectopic posterior pituitary and pituitary hypoplasia with abnormal
stalk).31
Non-Growth Hormone Deficient Short Stature (Idiopathic Short
Stature) in Children or Adolescents
Somatropin is indicated for the long-term treatment of idiopathic short stature (non-
growth hormone deficient short stature) which is defined by a height standard
deviation score (SDS) ≤ -2.25, and associated with growth rates that are unlikely to
permit attainment of adult height in the normal range.1-4,6,7 The predicted adult
heights of these children are < 160 cm (63 inches) for men and < 150 cm (59 inches)
in women.31 The Pediatric Endocrine Society guidelines (2016) recommend that the
Page 2 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
decision to treat idiopathic short stature with somatropin be made on a case-by-case
basis after assessing physical and psychological burdens, and discussion of risks and
benefits.31 They recommend against the routine use of somatropin in every child
with height SDS ≤ -2.25. In one consensus statement on children with idiopathic
short stature from the Growth Hormone Research Society, the Lawson Wilkins
Pediatric Endocrine Society, and the European Society for Paediatric Endocrinology
Workshop (2008), it was felt that the optimal age for initiating treatment is 5 years
to early puberty.12
The initial 6-month trial of somatropin is to establish that the child’s condition
responds to somatropin therapy. Authorization for continued therapy should be based
on an adequate clinical response defined as an annualized growth rate that doubles
in comparison to the previous year.14 Children who show a striking increase in growth
velocity during the first 6 to 12 months of somatropin therapy are most likely to
benefit from long-term therapy, and therapy should be discontinued if there is no
significant increase in growth rate during the first year. Children who have a
significant increase in growth rate after the first 6-month trial and the next 12 months
should then be reviewed annually for growth rate, closure of the epiphyses, and/or
attainment of mid-parental height.
Growth Hormone Deficiency (GHD) in Adults or Transition Adolescents
Somatropin is indicated for the replacement of endogenous growth hormone in adults
with GHD, which may present in adults or children as GHD (isolated GHD) or in
addition to other pituitary hormone deficiencies (gonadotropin, adrenocorticotropic
hormone, and/or thyroid-stimulating hormone deficiencies).15 Patients with other
anterior pituitary hormone deficiencies are likely to have GHD. In adults, the
diagnosis of GHD usually is made in patients with signs and symptoms of
hypothalamic-pituitary disease (endocrine, structural, and/or genetic causes); those
who have received cranial irradiation or tumor treatment; or those with traumatic
brain injury or subarachnoid hemorrhage.15,16 Onset may be in adulthood or
childhood. In childhood, the goal of somatropin therapy is primarily for statural
growth. When final adult height is attained, somatropin therapy is no longer required
for statural growth. Transition is used to describe the period in adolescence after
growth is completed and the need for continued replacement into adulthood is
assessed. Ongoing GHD is most likely in patients with multiple pituitary hormone
deficits, with or without structural pituitary or peripituitary disease, and/or a history
of cranial radiation therapy. Confirmatory growth hormone stimulation testing may
not be required in patients, such as with congenital/genetic GHD or multiple pituitary
hormone deficiencies. When persistent GHD is documented after completion of adult
height, somatropin therapy should be continued to attain full skeletal and muscle
maturation during the transition period from childhood to adulthood.15 In adults with
GHD, somatropin replacement therapy improves abnormalities in substrate
metabolism, body composition, and physical and psychosocial function.15,16
Growth hormone is not approved by the FDA for the treatment of other conditions in
adults who may have a low growth hormone response to growth hormone provocative
testing (such as obesity, aging, or depression) or to improve athletic
performance.17,18
Page 3 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
Growth Hormone Stimulation Tests (Adults or Transition Adolescents)
The insulin tolerance test is the gold standard growth hormone stimulation test53 but
is contraindicated in patients with ischemic heart disease or seizure disorders or in
elderly or pregnant patients.15,16,27 The glucagon stimulation test and the
macimorelin test could be considered as alternatives.53 The response to all growth
hormone stimulation tests show intra-individual variability, and the growth hormone
cutoff points vary with the test used. Otherwise healthy obese persons have blunted
growth hormone responses to various tests.30 There is no information on the effects
of increased body mass index (BMI) or central adiposity on the insulin tolerance test.
When Geref (growth hormone releasing hormone) was available [discontinued in the
US in 2008], Geref plus arginine was considered the best alternative to the insulin
tolerance test in adults.
Macrilen (macimorelin oral solution) is the most recently approved test for the
diagnosis of adult GHD. Patients in the pivotal trial were 18 to 66 years of age and
the BMI ranged from 16 to 40 kg/m2.29 Safety and diagnostic performance have not
been established in patients with BMI > 40 kg/m2. Clinical studies established that a
maximally stimulated serum growth hormone level of < 2.8 ng/mL (i.e., at the 30,
45, 60, and 90 minute time points) after Macrilen administration confirms the
presence of adult GHD. Novo Nordisk no longer commercializes Macrilen. As of May
2023, Aeterna Zentaris/Cosciens Biopahrma regained the rights to macimorelin in
the United States and is engaged in business development efforts to secure a new
development and commercialization partner.56
Arginine and levodopa testing have not been systematically evaluated and validated,
and because they have a low sensitivity and specificity in adults and transition
patients, it is not recommended to utilize these tests in this population.53
Additionally, the clonidine, levodopa, and arginine alone tests are generally not
recommended because very low growth hormone cutoff points are required to
achieve adequate specificity.27
Adults with childhood onset GHD may have alterations in body composition, bone
mineral density, and lipid metabolism that are alleviated by treatment with
somatropin.15,31 However, some children with a diagnosis of GHD have a normal
somatotropic axis when retested in late adolescence.31,52 Re-evaluation of the
somatotropic axis in children diagnosed with GHD is required during the transition
period. The transition period is the time from late puberty to establishment of adult
muscle and bone composition, and encompasses attainment of adult height.31 Re-
evaluation of the somatotropic axis is most conveniently done when growth has
slowed to the point where pediatric somatropin dosing will be discontinued (i.e., the
growth velocity is < 2 to 2.5 cm/year). Recommendations for transitional care after
childhood somatropin treatment from the Pediatric Endocrine Society guidelines31 are
as follows: Patients with multiple (≥ 3) pituitary hormone deficiencies regardless of
etiology, or GHD with a documented causal genetic mutation or specific
pituitary/hypothalamic structural defect (except ectopic posterior pituitary) be
diagnosed with persistent GHD. These guidelines recommend re-evaluation of the
somatotropic axis for persistent GHD in persons with 1) GHD and deficiency of only
Page 4 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
one additional pituitary hormone, 2) idiopathic isolated GHD, 3) idiopathic isolated
GHD with or without a small pituitary/ectopic posterior pituitary, and 4) in patients
after irradiation. Testing can be done after a trial of at least 1 month off somatropin
treatment. The guidelines also recommend growth hormone provocative testing to
evaluate the function of the somatotropic axis in the transition period if indicated by
a low insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 level. Persons with idiopathic isolated GHD
will very likely test sufficient with growth hormone provocative testing. To continue
growth hormone therapy in adulthood, retesting for GHD with growth hormone
stimulation test(s) is recommended in most transition patients and at least 1 month
after discontinuation of pediatric growth hormone therapy.53 Retesting is not
required in transition patients with evidence of panhypopituitarism (≥ 3 pituitary
hormone deficiencies) and low serum IGF-1 levels, patients with genetic defects, and
patients with hypothalamic-pituitary structural brain defects.
Adult GHD can be predicted with > 90% accuracy by the presence of three or four
pituitary hormone deficiencies in addition to serum IGF-1 concentration that is less
than the 2.5 percentile or < -2 SDS.15,16 This is in the absence of conditions that
lower IGF-1. Patients with ≥ 3 pituitary hormone deficiencies and an IGF-1 level
below the reference range do not need a growth hormone stimulation test.16 Because
of the nature of the cause of GHD in children with structural lesions with multiple
hormone deficiencies and those with proven genetic causes, provocative testing in
these adults is not necessary.
Chronic Kidney Disease in Children or Adolescents
Somatropin is indicated for the treatment of growth failure in children with chronic
kidney disease up to the time of kidney transplantation and is effective for increasing
the rate of growth.4 Somatropin therapy has increased final adult height in these
patients.19 An adequate growth response can be assumed if height velocity during
the first year of growth hormone treatment is greater than 2 cm per year over
baseline.20 This increase is supported by outcomes of controlled trials specific to
patients with chronic kidney disease. Guidelines recommend that persistent growth
failure (defined as height below the third percentile and height velocity below the 25th
percentile beyond a period of 3 months in infants or 6 months in children and
adolescents), be an indication for growth hormone therapy once other potentially
treatable risk factors for growth failure have been adequately addressed.20 Growth
hormone therapy can be initiated 1 year after transplantation if spontaneous catch-
up growth does not occur and steroid-free immunosuppression is not a feasible
option.
Noonan Syndrome and Short Stature in Children or Adolescents
Somatropin is indicated for the treatment of children with short stature associated
with Noonan syndrome.3,21 Not all patients with Noonan syndrome have short stature;
some will achieve a normal adult height without treatment. The younger the age at
start of therapy, the larger the change in height SDS. The diagnosis of Noonan is
established with suggestive findings and a heterozygous pathogenic variant in BRAF,
KRAS, MAP2K1, MRAS, NRAS, PTPN11, RAF1, RASA2, RIT1, RRAS2, SOS1, SOS2 or
either a heterozygous variant or biallelic pathogenic variants in LZTR1.55
Page 5 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
Prader-Willi Syndrome
Somatropin is indicated for the treatment of pediatric patients who have growth
failure due to Prader-Willi syndrome.1,3,7 Somatropin therapy in children increases
linear growth velocity, improves body composition (i.e., decreases the percentage
body fat, increases or stabilizes lean body mass), increases bone mineral density,
improves physical strength and agility, and improves final adult height.22 After final
height is attained, there may be potential benefits of somatropin on body
composition, peak bone mass, cognition, and quality of life in adults.22 Somatropin
is contraindicated in patients with Prader-Willi syndrome who are severely obese or
have severe respiratory impairment.1,3,7 Confirmation of Prader-Willi requires
molecular genetic testing for the identification of Prader-Willi genetic subtypes.54 The
condition is caused from lack of expression of paternally inherited imprinted genes
on chromosome 15q11.2-q13. The diagnosis is established by identification of
‘abnormal’ DNDA methylation within the Prader-Willi critical region at 15q11.2-q13.55
Short Stature Homeobox-Containing Gene (SHOX) Deficiency in
Children or Adolescents
Somatropin is indicated for the treatment of short stature or growth failure in children
with SHOX deficiency.2,6 SHOX deficiency may result from either deletion of one copy
of the SHOX gene or from mutation within or outside one copy of the SHOX gene that
impairs the production or function of the SHOX protein. Women with Turner syndrome
have only a single copy of the SHOX gene because they lack all or part of their second
X chromosome.23 SHOX deficiency is also the primary cause of short stature in most
patients with Léri-Weill dyschondrosteosis (syndrome), and SHOX mutations and
deletions are found in patients with idiopathic short stature. In one study consisting
of a 2-year control period and a subsequent extension period to final height, short
prepubertal patients with SHOX deficiency received somatropin.24
Children Born Small for Gestational Age (SGA)
Somatropin is indicated for the treatment of growth failure in children born SGA who
fail to exhibit catch-up growth by age 21,7 to 4 years.2,3,6 SGA is defined as a birth
weight and/or birth length that is greater than 2 standard deviation (SD) [about the
3rd percentile] below mean normal values after adjusting for gestational age and sex.
The terms SGA and intrauterine growth restriction are used interchangeably in this
document. In clinical trials, patients born SGA (including children with Silver-Russell
syndrome) without catch-up growth who were 2 to 11 years of age had significant
increases in growth when treated with somatropin before puberty.1,3 Optimal duration
of therapy once catch-up growth has been attained is not known.
Almost all patients with Silver-Russell syndrome are born SGA, and postnatal catch-
up growth does not occur in the majority of children.44 An expert consensus
statement recommends that patients with Silver-Russell syndrome receive treatment
with somatropin as soon as possible.44 Starting therapy at age 2 to 4 years is
adequate for the majority of patients. In some cases, somatropin therapy is started
in patients less than 2 years of age who have severe fasting hypoglycemia, severe
malnutrition, or severe muscular hypotonia. These experts recommend that
somatropin therapy be stopped when height velocity is < 2 cm per year over a 6-
month period and when bone age is > 14 years in females or > 17 years in males.
Page 6 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
Turner Syndrome
Somatropin is indicated for the treatment of short stature associated with Turner
syndrome.1-4,6,7 Turner syndrome is a sex chromosome disorder caused by loss of
part or all of an X chromosome; the diagnosis is confirmed by karyotype analysis.
Growth hormone therapy is used to maximize adult height in these patients; there is
no physiological rationale for continuing growth hormone into the transition period
after the completion of puberty.25
Short Bowel Syndrome
Zorbtive was indicated for the treatment of short bowel syndrome in adults receiving
specialized nutritional support.8 Zorbtive was discontinued by the manufacturer in
2021 and is no longer commercially available in the US. The 2022 American
Gasstroenterological Association on the management of short bowel syndrome, the
use of recombinant human growth hormone has largely been discontinued due to
unacceptable side effects and questionable long-term efficacy.
Human Immunodeficiency Virus-Associated Wasting or Cachexia
Somatropin is indicated for the treatment of HIV-infected adults with wasting (loss
of lean body mass) or cachexia to increase lean body mass and body weight, and
improve physical endurance.9 Somatropin therapy increases lean body mass,
decreases fat mass, and increases physical function in patients with HIV-associated
wasting. Studies directly comparing somatropin with other therapies (megestrol,
oxandrolone, testosterone, and progressive resistance training) for wasting or
cachexia in HIV-infection are lacking.26
POLICY STATEMENT
Prior Authorization is recommended for prescription benefit coverage of somatropin.
All reviews will be directed to a clinician (i.e., pharmacist) for verification of criteria.
All approvals are provided for the duration noted below. In cases where the approval
is authorized in months, 1 month is equal to 30 days. Because of the specialized skills
required for evaluation and diagnosis of patients treated with somatropin as well as
the monitoring required for adverse events and long-term efficacy, approval for some
indications requires somatropin to be prescribed by or in consultation with a physician
who specializes in the condition being treated. Human growth hormone is FDA-
approved for treatment of a limited number of conditions. The FDA has not approved
the use of human growth hormone as therapy for anti-aging, longevity, cosmetic
uses, or performance enhancement. Federal law prohibits the dispensing of human
growth hormone for non-approved purposes. A pharmacy’s failure to comply with
that law could result in significant criminal penalties to the pharmacy and its
employees. Accordingly, a pharmacy may decline to dispense prescriptions for human
growth hormone when written by physicians or other authorized prescribers who they
believe may be involved in or affiliated with the fields of anti-aging, longevity,
rejuvenation, cosmetic uses, performance enhancement, or sports medicine.
Documentation: Documentation is required for use of somatropin as noted in the
criteria as [documentation required]. Documentation may include, but is not
Page 7 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
limited to, chart notes, prescription claims records, prescription receipts, and/or other
information. For patient cases in which documentation is required, if this
documentation has been previously received upon a prior coverage review, the
documentation requirement is considered to be met.
• Genotropin (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Pfizer)
• Humatrope (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Eli Lilly)
• Norditropin® (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Novo Nordisk)
• Nutropin AQ (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Genentech)
• Omnitrope® (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Sandoz)
• Saizen® (somatropin subcutaneous injection – EMD Serono)
• Serostim (somatropin subcutaneous injection – EMD Serono)
• Zomacton™ (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Ferring)
is(are) covered as medically necessary when the following criteria is(are)
met for FDA-approved indication(s) or other uses with supportive evidence
(if applicable):
I. Coverage of Genotropin, Humatrope, Norditropin, Nutropin AQ, Omnitrope,
Saizen, and Zomacton (all listed products except Serostim) is recommended in
those who meet at least one of the following criteria:
FDA-Approved Indications
1. Growth Hormone Deficiency in a Child or Adolescent. Approve for 1 year if
the patient meets ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial therapy. Approve if the patient meets at least ONE of the following (i, ii,
iii, iv, or v):
i. Patient meets BOTH of the following (a and b):
a) Patient meets at least ONE of the following (1 or 2):
(1) Patient has had two growth hormone stimulation tests
performed with any of the following agents: levodopa, insulin-
induced hypoglycemia, arginine, clonidine, or glucagon AND the
peak growth hormone response to both tests are < 10 ng/mL; OR
(2) Patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii):
(i) Patient has had at least one growth hormone stimulation test
performed with any of the following agents: levodopa, insulin-
induced hypoglycemia, arginine, clonidine, or glucagon AND the
peak growth hormone response to at least one test is < 10
ng/mL; AND
(ii) Patient has at least one risk factor for growth hormone deficiency;
AND
Note: Examples of at least one risk factor for growth hormone
deficiency includes: the height for age curve has deviated
downward across two major height percentiles [e.g., from above
the 25th percentile to below the 10th percentile]; patient’s growth
rate is less than the expected normal growth rate based on age
and gender; patient has low insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1
Page 8 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
and/or IGF binding protein-3 levels; patient has a very low peak
growth hormone level on provocative testing as defined by the
prescribing physician; patient’s growth velocity is less than the
10th percentile for age and gender [height velocity percentile is
NOT the same as height-for-age percentile]; patient is status post
craniopharyngioma resection; patient has optic nerve hypoplasia;
patient has a growth hormone gene deletion.
Note: Some patients will achieve stimulated growth hormone
concentrations in the normal range as determined by the testing
laboratory and could be reviewed for authorization under non-
growth hormone deficiency short stature (idiopathic short
stature); AND
b) The medication has been prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist; OR
ii. Patient has undergone brain radiation or tumor resection AND meets BOTH
of the following (a and b):
a) Patient meets at least ONE of the following (1 or 2):
(1) Patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii):
(i) Patient has had one growth hormone stimulation test with any of
the following agents: levodopa, insulin-induced hypoglycemia,
arginine, clonidine, or glucagon; AND
(ii) The peak growth hormone response to at least one test is < 10
ng/mL; OR
(2) Patient has a deficiency in at least one other pituitary hormone
(i.e., adrenocorticotropic hormone, thyroid-stimulating hormone,
gonadotropin deficiency [luteinizing hormone and/or follicle
stimulating hormone deficiency are counted as one deficiency], or
prolactin); AND
b) The medication has been prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist; OR
iii. Patient has congenital hypopituitarism AND meets BOTH of the following (a
and b):
a) Patient meets at least ONE of the following (1, 2, or 3):
(1) Patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii):
(i) Patient has had one growth hormone stimulation test with any of
the following agents: levodopa, insulin-induced hypoglycemia,
arginine, clonidine, or glucagon; AND
(ii) The peak growth hormone response to at least one test is < 10
ng/mL; OR
(2) Patient has a deficiency in at least one other pituitary hormone
(i.e., adrenocorticotropic hormone, thyroid-stimulating hormone,
gonadotropin deficiency [luteinizing hormone and/or follicle
stimulating hormone deficiency are counted as one deficiency], or
prolactin); OR
(3) Patient has the imaging triad of ectopic posterior pituitary and
pituitary hypoplasia with abnormal pituitary stalk; AND
b) The medication has been prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist; OR
Page 9 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
iv. Patient has multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies and meets BOTH of the
following (a and b):
Note: Growth hormone deficiency may occur in combination with other
pituitary hormone deficiencies and is referred to as hypopituitarism,
panhypopituitarism, or multiple pituitary hormone deficiency.
a) Patient meets at least ONE of the following (1 or 2):
(1) Patient has three or more of the following pituitary hormone
deficiencies: somatropin (growth hormone), adrenocorticotropic
hormone, thyroid-stimulating hormone, gonadotropin deficiency
(luteinizing hormone and/or follicle stimulating hormone deficiency
are counted as one deficiency), and prolactin; OR
(2) Patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii):
(i) Patient has had one growth hormone stimulation test with any of
the following agents: levodopa, insulin-induced hypoglycemia,
arginine, clonidine, or glucagon; AND
(ii) The peak growth hormone response to at least one test is < 10
ng/mL; AND
b) The medication has been prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist; OR
v. Patient has had a hypophysectomy (surgical removal of pituitary gland);
OR
B) Patient is continuing somatropin therapy (i.e., established on somatropin for
≥ 10 months). Approve if the patient meets at least ONE of the following (i, ii,
or iii):
i. Patient is < 12 years of age. Patient’s height has increased by ≥ 2 cm/year
in the most recent year; OR
ii. Patient is between ≥ 12 years and < 18 years of age. Patient meets BOTH
of the following (a and b):
a) Patient’s height has increased by ≥ 2 cm/year in the most recent year;
AND
b) Patient’s epiphyses are open; OR
iii. Patient is ≥ 18 years of age. Patient meets ALL of the following (a, b, and
c):
a) Patient’s height has increased by ≥ 2 cm/year in the most recent year;
AND
b) Patient’s epiphyses are open; AND
c) Patient’s mid-parental height has not been attained.
Note: Mid-parental height is the father’s height plus the mother’s height
divided by 2, plus 2.5 inches if male or minus 2.5 inches if female.
Note: Adolescents and young adults with childhood onset growth
hormone deficiency who have previously responded to somatropin with
increases in height velocity and who have completed linear growth may
continue receiving somatropin therapy as a transition adolescent or as
an adult. See criteria I.3. (Growth hormone deficiency in an adult or
transition adolescent).
Page 10 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
2. Non-Growth Hormone Deficient Short Stature (Idiopathic Short Stature)
in a Child or Adolescent. Approve for the duration noted if the patient meets at
least ONE of the following (A or B):
A) Initial therapy. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the following
(i, ii, iii, iv, v, vi, and vii):
i. Patient is ≥ 5 years of age; AND
ii. Patient’s baseline height is ≤ 1.2 percentile or a standard deviation score
(SDS) ≤ -2.25 for age and gender; AND
iii. Patient’s growth (height) velocity meets at least ONE of the following (a or
b):
a) Patient has a growth rate < 4 cm/year; OR
b) Patient’s growth (height) velocity is less than the 10th percentile for age
and gender based on at least 6 months of growth data; AND
Note: Height velocity percentile is NOT the same as height for age
percentile.
iv. Without growth hormone therapy, the patient’s predicted adult height is <
160 cm (63 inches) in males or < 150 cm (59 inches) in females; AND
v. Patient’s epiphyses are open; AND
vi. Patient does not have constitutional delay of growth and puberty; AND
vii. The medication has been prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist; OR
B) Patient is continuing somatropin therapy. Approve for 1 year if the patient
meets at least ONE of the following (i or ii):
i. Patient has received somatropin for ≥ 6 months and < 10 months. Approve
if the patient meets BOTH of the following (a and b):
a) Patient is ≥ 5 years of age; AND
b) Patient’s annualized growth rate has doubled in comparison to the
previous year; OR
Note: For example, if the growth velocity was 3 cm/year for the year
prior to treatment, then the growth velocity must be at least 3 cm in 6
months (baseline velocity was 1.5 cm/6 months) or for example, the
growth velocity was 2 cm/year for the year prior to treatment, then after
6 months of somatropin therapy, the growth velocity must be at least 2
cm in 6 months (1 cm/6 months baseline).
ii. Patient has received somatropin for ≥ 10 months. Approve if the patient
meets at least ONE of the following (a, b, or c):
a) Patient is ≥ 5 years and < 12 years of age. Patient’s height has increased
by ≥ 2 cm/year in the most recent year; OR
b) Patient is ≥ 12 years of age and < 18 years of age. Patient meets BOTH
of the following (1 and 2):
(1) Patient’s height has increased by ≥ 2 cm/year in the most recent
year; AND
(2) Patient’s epiphyses are open; OR
c) Patient is ≥ 18 years of age. Patient meets ALL of the following (1, 2,
and 3):
(1) Patient’s height has increased by ≥ 2 cm/year in the most recent
year; AND
(2) Patient’s epiphyses are open; AND
Page 11 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
(3) Patient’s mid-parental height has not been attained.
Note: Mid-parental height is the father’s height plus the mother’s
height divided by 2, plus 2.5 inches if male or minus 2.5 inches if
female.
3. Growth Hormone Deficiency in an Adult or Transition Adolescent. Approve
for 1 year if the patient meets ALL of the following (A, B, C, and D):
A) The endocrinologist must certify that somatropin is not being prescribed for
anti-aging therapy or to enhance athletic ability or for body building; AND
B) Patient must have a diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency that is ONE of the
following (i or ii): [documentation required for all elements]
i. Childhood onset; OR
ii. Adult onset that results from one of the following: growth hormone
deficiency alone or multiple hormone deficiencies (hypopituitarism)
resulting from pituitary disease, hypothalamic disease, pituitary surgery,
cranial radiation therapy, tumor treatment, traumatic brain injury, or
subarachnoid hemorrhage; AND
C) Patient meets at least ONE of the following (i, ii, or iii):
i. Patient (adult or transition adolescent) has known perinatal insults OR
congenital or genetic defects; [documentation required] OR
ii. Patient meets ALL of the following (a, b, and c):
a) Patient (adult onset or transition adolescent) has or had three or more
of the following pituitary hormone deficiencies prior to hormone
replacement therapy (if hormone therapy is required):
Adrenocorticotropic hormone, thyroid-stimulation hormone,
gonadotropin deficiency (luteinizing hormone and/or follicle stimulating
hormone deficiency are counted as one deficiency), and prolactin
[documentation required]; AND
b) The age and gender adjusted serum insulin-like growth factor-1 is or
was below the lower limit of the normal reference range for the reporting
laboratory [documentation required], prior to growth hormone
therapy; AND
c) Other causes of low serum insulin-like growth factor-1 have been
excluded (e.g., malnutrition, prolonged fasting, poorly controlled
diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, hepatic insufficiency, oral estrogen
therapy); OR
iii. Patient meets at least ONE of the following (a or b):
a) Adult. Patient has had a negative response to at least ONE of the
following standard growth hormone stimulation tests (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or
6) [documentation required for all elements]:
Note: If the patient has had a previous trial of an arginine test with a
peak response of ≤ 0.4 mcg/L, this would meet the criteria for a
negative response to a growth hormone stimulation test.
(1) Insulin tolerance test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone levels
in at least a 60 minute timeframe [not including a level at timeframe
zero], with adequate hypoglycemia being achieved) with peak
response ≤ 5.0 mcg/L; OR
Page 12 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
(2) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone
levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a level at
timeframe zero]) with peak response ≤ 3.0 mcg/L AND the patient’s
body mass index (BMI) is < 25 kg/m2; OR
(3) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone
levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a level at
timeframe zero]) with a peak response ≤ 3.0 mcg/L AND the
patient’s BMI is ≥ 25 kg/m2 and ≤ 30 kg/m2 with, according to the
prescriber, a high pretest probability of growth hormone deficiency;
OR
(4) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone
levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a level at
timeframe zero]) with a peak response ≤ 1.0 mcg/L AND the
patient’s BMI is ≥ 25 kg/m2 and ≤ 30 kg/m2 with, according to the
prescriber, a low pretest probability of growth hormone deficiency;
OR
(5) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone
levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a level at
timeframe zero]) with peak response ≤ 1.0 mcg/L AND the patient’s
BMI is > 30 kg/m2; OR
(6) Macrilen (macimorelin oral solution) test (obtaining at least 4
growth hormone levels in at least a 90 minute timeframe [not
including a level at timeframe zero]) with peak responses < 2.8
ng/mL (2.8 mcg/L) AND the patient’s BMI is ≤ 40 kg/m2.
Note: The following formula can be used to calculate BMI: BMI equals
body weight in kg divided by height meters squared (m2) [i.e., BMI
= kg/m2]; OR
b) Transition adolescent. Patient meets BOTH of the following (1 and 2):
[documentation required for all elements]:
Note: The transition period is the time from late puberty to
establishment of adult muscle and bone composition and encompasses
attainment of adult height.
Note: If the patient has had a trial of a Macrilen test with a peak
response of < 2.8 ng/mL (mcg/L), this would meet the criteria for a
negative response to a growth hormone stimulation test.
(1) Patient has been off somatropin therapy for at least 1 month
before retesting with a growth hormone stimulation test; AND
(2) Patient meets at least ONE of the following responses to growth
hormone stimulation testing (i, ii, iii, iv, v or vi):
(i) Insulin tolerance test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone levels
in at least a 60 minute timeframe [not including a level at
timeframe zero], with adequate hypoglycemia being achieved)
with peak response ≤ 5.0 mcg/L; OR
(ii) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone
levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a level at
timeframe zero]) with peak response ≤ 3.0 mcg/L AND the
patient’s body mass index (BMI) is < 25 kg/m2; OR
Page 13 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
(iii) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth
hormone levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a
level at timeframe zero]) with a peak response of ≤ 3.0 mcg/L
AND the patient’s BMI is ≥ 25 kg/m2 and ≤ 30 kg/m2 with,
according to the prescriber, a high pretest probability of growth
hormone deficiency; OR
(iv) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth
hormone levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a
level at timeframe zero]) with a peak response ≤ 1.0 mcg/L AND
the patient’s BMI is ≥ 25 kg/m2 and ≤ 30 kg/m2 with, according
to the prescriber, a low pretest probability of growth hormone
deficiency; OR
(v) Glucagon stimulation test (obtaining at least 3 growth hormone
levels in at least 180 minute timeframe [not including a level at
timeframe zero]) with peak response ≤ 1.0 mcg/L AND the
patient’s BMI is > 30 kg/m2; OR
(vi) If both the insulin tolerance test AND glucagon stimulation test
are contraindicated, the arginine test can be used (obtaining at
least 3 growth hormone levels in at least 120 minute timeframe
[not including a level at timeframe zero]) with a peak response ≤
0.4 mcg/L; AND
D) The medication was prescribed by or in consultation with an endocrinologist.
4. Chronic Kidney Disease in a Child or Adolescent. Approve for 1 year if the
patient meets BOTH of the following (A and B):
A) Patient has or had chronic kidney disease as defined by a glomerular filtration
rate < 60 milliliters/minute; AND
B) Patient meets at least ONE of the following (i or ii):
i. Initial therapy. Approve if the patient meets BOTH of the following (a and
b):
a) Patient has persistent growth failure as defined as BOTH of the following
(1 and 2):
(1) Patient’s baseline height is less than the 5th percentile for age and
gender; AND
(2) Patient’s baseline height velocity is below the 25th percentile over
a period of 3 months in infants (≤ 1 year of age) or 6 months in
children and adolescents; AND
b) The medication was prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist or a nephrologist; OR
ii. Patient is continuing somatropin therapy (i.e., established on somatropin
for ≥ 10 months). Approve if the patient meets BOTH of the following (a
and b):
a) Patient’s height has increased by ≥ 2 cm/year in the most recent year;
AND
b) Patient’s epiphyses are open.
5. Noonan Syndrome in a Child or Adolescent. Approve for 1 year if the patient
meets BOTH of the following (A and B):
Page 14 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
A) The diagnosis of Noonan syndrome has been confirmed by ONE of the following
(i or ii):
i. Noonan syndrome has been confirmed by a heterozygous pathogenic
variant in BRAF, KRAS, MAP2K1, MRAS, NRAS, PTPN11, RAF1, RASA2,
RIT1, RRAS2, SOS1 or SOS2 OR by either a heterozygous variant or biallelic
pathogenic variants in LZTR1; OR
ii. If genetic testing does not definitively confirm the diagnosis, the prescriber
has made a clinical diagnosis of Noonan syndrome: AND
Note: Clinical diagnosis includes abnormal facial features (high forehead,
epicanthic folds, etc.), pulmonary valve stenosis and/or hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy, first-degree relative with Noonan syndrome, mild
developmental delay.
B) Patient meets at least ONE of the following (i or ii):
i. Initial therapy. Approve if the patient meets BOTH of the following (a and
b):
a) Patient’s baseline height is less than the 5th percentile using a growth
chart for children without Noonan syndrome; AND
b) The medication was prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist; OR
ii. Patient is continuing somatropin therapy (i.e., established on somatropin
for ≥ 10 months). Approve if the patient meets BOTH of the following (a
and b):
a) Patient’s height has increased by ≥ 2 cm/year in the most recent year;
AND
b) Patient’s epiphyses are open.
6. Prader-Willi Syndrome. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets BOTH of the
following (A and B):
A) The diagnosis of Prader-Willi syndrome has been established by identification
of abnormal DNA methylation of chromosome 15q11.2-q13; AND
B) Patient meets at least ONE of the following (i or ii):
i. Initial therapy. Approve if the medication patient (child or adult) has been
prescribed by or in consulation with an endocrinologist; OR
ii. Patient is continuing somatropin therapy (i.e., established on somatropin
for ≥ 10 months). Approve if the patient meets at least ONE of the following
(a or b):
a) Child or adolescent. The patient meets BOTH of the following (1 and 2):
(1) Patient’s height has increased by ≥ 2 cm/year in the most recent
year; AND
(2) Patient’s epiphyses are open; OR
Note: When the epiphyses are closed and/or the height velocity is <
2 cm/year, the patient can be reviewed for continuation of therapy
as an adult with Prader-Willi syndrome.
b) Adult or adolescent whose epiphyses are closed and/or whose height
velocity is < 2 cm/year. Patient meets BOTH of the following (1 and 2):
(1) This physician must certify that somatropin is not being used for
anti-aging therapy or to enhance athletic performance/body
building; AND
Page 15 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
(2) The medication has been prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist.
7. Short Stature Homeobox-Containing Gene Deficiency in a Child or
Adolescent. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets BOTH of the following (A and
B):
A) Patient has short stature homeobox-containing gene deficiency demonstrated
by chromosome analysis; AND
B) Patients meets at least ONE of the following (i or ii):
i. Initial therapy. Approve if the patient meets ALL of the following (a, b, and
c):
a) Patient’s epiphyses are open; AND
b) Patient’s baseline height is less than the 5th percentile for age and
gender; AND
c) The medication has been prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist; OR
ii. Patient is continuing somatropin therapy (i.e., established on somatropin
for ≥ 10 months). Approve if the patient meets BOTH of the following (a
and b):
a) Patient’s height has increased by ≥ 2 cm/year in the most recent year;
AND
b) Patient’s epiphyses are open.
8. Child Born Small for Gestational Age or with Intrauterine Growth
Restriction Including a Child with Silver-Russell Syndrome. Approve for 1
year if the patient meets BOTH of the following (A and B):
A) Patient meets BOTH of the following (i and ii):
i. Patient was born small for gestational age, which is defined as birth weight
and/or birth length that is > 2 standard deviations (SD) below the mean (<
-2 SD) for gestational age and gender; AND
ii. Patient did not have sufficient catch-up growth before age 2 to 4 years;
AND
B) Patient meets at least ONE of the following (i or ii):
i. Initial therapy. Approve if the patient meets ALL of the following (a, b, and
c):
a) Patient is  2 years of age; AND
b) Patient’s baseline height is less than the 5th percentile for age and
gender; AND
c) The medication has been prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist; OR
ii. Patient is continuing somatropin therapy (i.e., established on somatropin
for ≥ 10 months). Approve if the patient meets at least ONE of the following
(a or b):
a) Patient is < 12 years of age. Patient’s height has increased by ≥ 2
cm/year in the most recent year; OR
b) Patient is ≥ 12 years. Patient meets BOTH of the following (1 and 2):
(1) Patient’s height has increased by ≥ 2 cm/year in the most recent
year; AND
Page 16 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
(2) Patient’s epiphyses are open.
9. Turner Syndrome. Approve for 1 year if the patient meets BOTH of the following
(A and B):
A) The diagnosis of Turner’s syndrome has been confirmed by karyotype analysis
(i.e., chromosome analysis); AND
B) Patient meets at least ONE of the following (i or ii):
i. Initial therapy. Patient’s baseline height is less than the 5th percentile for
age and gender; OR
ii. Patient is continuing somatropin therapy (i.e., established on somatropin
for ≥ 10 months). Approve if the patient meets BOTH of the following (a
and b):
a) Patient’s height has increased by ≥ 2 cm/year in the most recent year;
AND
b) Patient’s epiphyses are open.
II. Coverage of Genotropin, Humatrope, Norditropin, Nutropin AQ, Omnitrope,
Saizen, and Zomacton (all listed products except Serostim) is recommended in
those who meet the following criteria:
1. Short Bowel Syndrome. Approve for 1 month if the patient has already been
started on somatropin therapy for this condition or has responded to somatropin
therapy in the past.
III. Coverage of Serostim is recommended in those who meet the following criteria:
1. Human Immunodeficiency Virus Infection with Wasting or Cachexia in an
Adult. Approve for 6 months if the patient meets ALL of the following (A, B, C, D,
E, and F):
A) Patient is ≥ 18 years of age; AND
B) Patient meets at least ONE of the following (i, ii, or iii):
i. Documented unintentional weight loss of  10% from baseline; OR
ii. Patient’s weight < 90% of the lower limit of ideal body weight; OR
iii. Patient’s body mass index (BMI)  20 kg/m2; AND
Note: The following formula can be used to calculate BMI: BMI equals body
weight in kg divided by height in meters squared (m2) [i.e., BMI = kg/m2].
C) Patient has wasting or cachexia that is due to malabsorption, poor diet,
opportunistic infection, or depression, and other causes have been addressed
prior to starting somatropin; AND
D) Patient has been on antiretroviral therapy or highly active antiretroviral
treatment for  30 days prior to beginning Serostim therapy and will continue
antiretroviral therapy throughout the course of Serostim treatment; AND
E) Serostim is not being used solely for treatment of alterations in body fat
distribution such as increased abdominal girth, lipodystrophy and excess
abdominal fat, or dorsocervical fat pad; AND
F) Patient meets at least ONE of the following (i or ii):
i. Patient has tried one appetite stimulant or other anabolic agent; OR
Page 17 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
Note: Examples of appetite stimulants or other anabolic agents include
megestrol acetate, dronabinol, oxandrolone.
ii. Appetite stimulants or other anabolic agents are contraindicated.
CONDITIONS NOT COVERED
• Genotropin (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Pfizer)
• Humatrope (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Eli Lilly)
• Norditropin® (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Novo Nordisk)
• Nutropin AQ (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Genentech)
• Omnitrope® (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Sandoz)
• Saizen® (somatropin subcutaneous injection – EMD Serono)
• Serostim (somatropin subcutaneous injection – EMD Serono)
• Zomacton™ (somatropin subcutaneous injection – Ferring)
is(are) considered not medically necessary for ANY other use(s) including
the following (this list may not be all inclusive; criteria will be updated as
new published data are available):
Note: For some of the following indications, authorization for coverage is not
recommended because the indication is excluded from coverage in a typical pharmacy
benefit.
1. Acute Critical Illness Due to Complications Following Surgery, Multiple
Accidental Trauma, or with Acute Respiratory Failure.1-9 In two placebo-
controlled trials in non-growth hormone deficient adults (n = 522) with these
conditions, there was a significant increase in mortality (42% vs. 19%) in patients
treated with somatropin compared to those on placebo.
2. Aging (i.e., Anti-Aging), to Improve Functional Status in an Elderly
Patient, and Somatopause.17,18,32,33 Somatropin is not FDA-approved for anti-
aging therapy, to improve functional status in elderly patients, or to treat
somatopause. Federal law prohibits the distribution or dispensing of somatropin
for non-FDA approved uses. There are no long-term studies assessing somatropin
efficacy and safety for anti-aging therapy. Short-term therapy with somatropin
may improve some measures of body composition, including increased muscle
mass, reduced total body fat, improved skin elasticity, and reduced rate of bone
demineralization, but somatotropin does not have positive effects on strength,
functional capacity, or metabolism. Somatropin is associated with considerable
adverse effects in non-growth hormone deficient adults (e.g., carpal tunnel
syndrome, soft tissue edema, arthralgias, glucose intolerance, increased serum
lipids). Another concern is the possible increased risk of cancer with long-term
use of somatropin and the potentiating effects of IGFs on cancer. Somatropin is
not indicated for the age-related decrease in growth hormone/IGF-1 status.16
3. Athletic Ability Enhancement.18,34 Somatropin is not FDA-approved for athletic
performance enhancement or for body building in nonathletes. Federal law
prohibits the distribution or dispensing of somatropin for non-FDA approved uses.
Page 18 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
Short-term administration of somatropin to increase strength and endurance in
athletes is no more effective than training alone and somatropin should not be
administered to athletes or other persons for the purpose of enhancing athletic
ability or improving personal appearance (i.e., to appear leaner and more
muscular). Somatropin has been used in supraphysiologic doses alone or in
combination with other performance enhancing drugs (PEDs) in users who are not
athletes.34 Use of PEDs has been linked to an increased risk of death and many
adverse effects including cardiovascular, psychiatric, metabolic, endocrine,
neurologic, infectious, hepatic, renal, and musculoskeletal disorders.
4. Central Precocious Puberty. Children with precocious puberty are often treated
with gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists (Lupron® [leuprolide
acetate injection]) to suppress pituitary gonadal activity, to slow the advancement
of bone age (prevent premature fusion of the epiphyseal growth plates), and to
improve adult height. In some patients GnRH agonist therapy may result in
marked deceleration of bone growth and may result in adult height that is less
than the mid-parental height. Small and nonrandomized studies have
demonstrated a significant improvement in final adult height over pre-treated
predicted adult height in patients treated with GnRH agonist and GH as compared
with patients treated with GnRH agonist alone. However, larger randomized
studies are lacking, and routine use of GH in this setting is not recommended.35,36.
5. Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. There is no evidence of GHD in chronic fatigue
syndrome.37
6. Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia (CAH).38,39 The Endocrine Society clinical
practice guidelines on CAH due to steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency recommend
against the use of experimental treatment approaches outside of formally
approved clinical trials.39 Children with predicted adult height SD ≤ -2.25 may
be considered for growth-promoting treatments in appropriately controlled trials.
7. Constitutional Delay of Growth and Puberty. These children have delayed
skeletal maturation and pubertal development. Administering somatropin does
not increase adult height (which is usually normal).40 Short-term androgen
therapy accelerates growth and the rate of pubertal advancement in boys.
8. Corticosteroid-Induced Short Stature.13 This includes a variety of chronic
glucocorticoid-dependent conditions, such as asthma, Crohn’s disease,13 juvenile
rheumatoid arthritis,28,41,42 as well as after renal, heart, liver, or bone marrow
transplantation.43 Short-term improvement in growth velocity in children with
glucocorticoid-induced suppression has been reported with somatropin therapy.
Long-term data are not available.13 Children being considered for treatment with
somatropin should be enrolled in studies that allow careful monitoring and data
analysis.
9. Fibromyalgia. In one placebo-controlled study, 120 non-GHD adult women with
severe fibromyalgia and low levels of IGF-1 were randomized to somatropin 0.006
mg/kg/day for 12 months (dose was adjusted) or placebo for 6 months.45 Patients
Page 19 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
receiving placebo initially were switched to somatropin from Months 6 to 12 (open
label). Standard therapy for fibromyalgia was continued. After 6 months, there
were no differences between somatropin and placebo in the percentage of patients
with fewer than 11 positive tender points, mean number of tender points, intensity
of pain in every point evaluated, and other measures. After 12 months of
somatropin therapy, 53% of patients had less than 11 positive tender points
compared with 33% of patients who received placebo and then somatropin for 6
months (P < 0.05). At 18 months follow-up evaluation when somatropin was
discontinued, impairment in pain perception worsened in both groups but to a
lesser extent in the patients on somatropin for 12 months. Further controlled trials
with a longer duration,46 with different doses, and using the 2010 American
College of Rheumatology criteria for fibromyalgia are needed. Some patients with
fibromyalgia may have adult GHD.
10.Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)-Infected Patient with Alterations
in Body Fat Distribution (e.g., increased abdominal girth, lipodystrophy and
excess abdominal fat, dorsocervical fat pad).26 Somatropin is not indicated for
the treatment of HIV-associated adipose redistribution syndrome (HARS). HARS
is a subset of HIV lipodystrophy and is defined as maldistribution of body fat
characterized by central fat accumulation (lipohypertrophy) with or without
lipoatrophy. In HARS, fat may also accumulate in the upper body subcutaneous
area such as the dorsocervical area. These changes may be associated with
metabolic disturbances (insulin resistance, glucose intolerance, dyslipidemia) and
belly image distress. Safety and efficacy are not established.
11.Infertility. Some trials have demonstrated that GH intervention is associated
with improved in-vitro fertilization (IVF) reproductive outcome, but others have
concluded there is no evidence of an increased chance of a live birth with use of
somatropin. More randomized controlled clinical trials with rigorous methodology
are needed to confirm the beneficial effects of GH on assisted reproductive
technology outcomes.47 A 2025 phase III open-label study showed that empiric
adjunvant GH therapy in GnRH antagonist cycles does not improve IVF stimulation
results or reproductive outcomes, including implantation, miscarriage, and clinical
pregnancy rates.10
12.Obesity.48,49 Somatropin is not indicated for the treatment of obesity. Low growth
hormone levels are a consequence of central obesity and not a cause. Obesity is
associated with decreased basal and pusatile release of growth hormone and
decreased stimulated growth hormone release. Somatropin therapy does not have
significant beneficial effects on obesity in persons without GHD and does not
produce significant overall weight loss. Supraphysiologic doses of somatropin
have been used to treat obesity. Effects of long-term therapy with somatropin are
unknown.
13.Osteoporosis.50,51 Guidelines for treatment or prevention of osteoporosis do not
include recommendations for use of somatropin. In one double-blind trial, 80
postmenopausal women with osteoporosis (56% of patients [n = 45/80] had a
history of fractures) were randomized to somatropin 0.33 mg/day or 0.83 mg/day
Page 20 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
or to placebo for three years.50 The double-blind phase was 18 months and
patients on somatropin continued drug for another 18 months and patients on
placebo stopped at 18 months. Patients were compared with an age-matched
random population sample of women (n = 120). All patients received calcium 750
mg, vitamin D 400 units, and hormone replacement therapy. All women were
followed for a total of 10 years. Bone mineral density (BMD) increased in the
patients receiving somatropin at Years 4 and 5, and after 10 years, BMD decreased
to similar levels as before treatment. At 10 years, 28% of women (n = 22/80)
had fractures. In the control group, fractures increased from 8% of patients at
baseline to 32% of patients after 10 years. At 10 years, 41% of patients (n =
33/80) had stopped hormone replacement therapy; 23% had started
bisphosphonates due to fractures, and 3% had received Forteo® (teriparatide
injection). Larger studies are needed to determine the effects of somatropin
therapy on bone mineral density and fractures in non-growth hormone deficient
persons.
REFERENCES
1. Genotropin® subcutaneous injection [prescribing information]. New York, NY: Pfizer; August 2024.
2. Humatrope® subcutaneous injection [prescribing information]. Indianapolis, IN: Eli Lilly; December
2023.
3. Norditropin® subcutaneousinjection [prescribing information]. Plainsboro, NJ: Novo Nordisk; March
2020.
4. Nutropin AQ® subcutaneous injection [prescribing information]. South San Francisco, CA:
Genentech; December 2016.
5. Saizenprep® subcutaneous injection [prescribing information]. Rockland, MA: EMD Serono;
February 2020.
6. Zomacton® subcutaneous injection [prescribing information]. Parsippany, NJ: Ferring; April 2024.
7. Omnitrope® injection [prescribing information]. Princeton, NJ: Sandoz; November 2024.
8. Zorbtive® subcutaneous injection [prescribing information]. Rockland, MA: EMD Serono;
September 2019.
9. Serostim® subcutaneous injection [prescribing information]. Rockland, MA: EMD Serono; June
2019.
10. Mourad A, Jamal W, Hemmings R, et al. Empirical use of growth hormone in IVF is useless: the
largest randomized controlled trial. Hum Reprod. 2025;40(1):77-84.
11. Isfan F, Kanold J, Merlin E, et al. Growth hormone treatment impact on growth rate and final
height of patients who received HSCT with TBI or/and cranial irradiation in childhood: a report
from the French Leukaemia Long-Term Follow-Up Study (LEA). Bone Marrow Transplant.
2012;47:684-693
12. Cohen P, Rogol AD, Deal CL, et al; 2007 ISS Consensus Workshop participants. Consensus
statement on the diagnosis and treatment of children with idiopathic short stature: a summary of
the Growth Hormone Research Society, the Lawson Wilkins Pediatric Endocrine Society, and the
European Society for Paediatric Endocrinology Workshop. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2008;93:4210-
4217.
13. Wilson TA, Rose SR, Cohen P, et al. Update of guidelines for the use of growth hormone in
children: the Lawson Wilkins Pediatric Endocrinology Society Drug and Therapeutics Committee. J
Pediatr. 2003;143:415-421.
14. Freemark M. Editorial: Growth hormone treatment of "idiopathic short stature": not so fast. J Clin
Endocrinol Metab. 2004;89:3138-3139.
15. Molitch ME, Clemmons DR, Malozowski S, et al; Endocrine Society. Evaluation and treatment of
adult growth hormone deficiency: an Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. J Clin Endocrinol
Metab. 2011;96:1587-1609.
16. Ho KK; 2007 GH Deficiency Consensus Workshop Participants. Consensus guidelines for the
diagnosis and treatment of adults with GH deficiency II: a statement of the GH Research Society
in association with the European Society for Pediatric Endocrinology, Lawson Wilkins Society,
Page 21 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
European Society of Endocrinology, Japan Endocrine Society, and Endocrine Society of Australia.
Eur J Endocrinol. 2007;157:695-700.
17. Melmed S. Idiopathic adult growth hormone deficiency. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2013;98:2187-
2197.
18. Clemmons DR, Molitch M, Hoffman AR, et al. Growth hormone should be used only for approved
indications. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014;99:409-411.
19. Fine RN, Martz K, Stablein D. What have 20 years of data from the North American Pediatric Renal
Transplant Cooperative Study taught us about growth following renal transplantation in infants,
children, and adolescents with end-stage renal disease? Pediatr Nephrol. 2010;25:739-746.
20. Drube J, Wan M, Bonthuis M, et al; European Society for Paediatric Nephrology Chronic Kidney
Disease Mineral and Bone Disorders, Dialysis, and Transplantation Working Groups. Clinical
practice recommendations for growth hormone treatment in children with chronic kidney disease.
Nat Rev Nephrol. 2019;15(9):577-589.
21. Noonan JA, Kappelgaard AM. The efficacy and safety of growth hormone therapy in children with
Noonan syndrome: a review of the evidence. Horm Res Paediatr. 2015;83:157-166.
22. Deal CL, Tony M, Höybye C, et al; 2011 Growth Hormone in Prader-Willi Syndrome Clinical Care
Guidelines Workshop Participants. Growth Hormone Research Society workshop summary:
consensus guidelines for recombinant human growth hormone therapy in Prader-Willi syndrome. J
Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2013;98:E1072-E1087.
23. Blum WF, Crowe BJ, Quigley CA, et al; for the Shox Study Group. Growth hormone is effective in
treatment of short stature associated with short stature homeobox-containing gene: two-year
results of a randomized, controlled, multi-center trial. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2007;92:219-228.
24. Blum WF, Ross JL, Zimmermann AG, et al. GH treatment to final height produces similar height
gains in patients with SHOX deficiency and Turner syndrome: results of a multicenter trial. J Clin
Endocrinol Metab. 2013 Aug;98(8):E1383-1392.
25. Gravholt CH, Andersen NH, Conway GS, et al; International Turner Syndrome Consensus Group.
Clinical practice guidelines for the care of girls and women with Turner syndrome: proceedings
from the 2016 Cincinnati International Turner Syndrome Meeting. Eur J Endocrinol.
2017;177(3):G1-G70.
26. Badowski M, Pandit NS. Pharmacologic management of human immunodeficiency virus wasting
syndrome. Pharmacotherapy. 2014;34:868-881.
27. Yuen KC, Tritos NA, Samson SL, et al. American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, American
College of Endocrinology disease state clinical review: update on growth hormone stimulation
testing and proposed revised cut-point for the glucagon stimulation test in the diagnosis of adult
growth hormone deficiency. Endocr Pract. 2016;22(10):1235-1244.
28. Guzman J, Kerr T, Ward LM, et al. Growth and weight gain in children with juvenile idiopathic
arthritis: results from the ReACCh-Out cohort. Pediatr Rheumatol Online J. 2017;15(1):68.
29. Macrilen™ oral solution [prescribing information]. Plainsboro, NJ: Novo Nordisk; July 2021.
30. Andersen M. The robustness of diagnostic tests for GH deficiency in adults. Growth Horm IGF Res.
2015;25:108-114.
31. Grimberg A, DiVall SA, Polychronakos C, et al; Drug and Therapeutics Committee and Ethics
Committee of the Pediatric Endocrine Society. Guidelines for growth hormone and insulin-like
growth factor-I treatment in children and adolescents: growth hormone deficiency, idiopathic short
stature, and primary insulin-like growth factor-I deficiency. Horm Res Paediatr. 2016;86(6):361-
397.
32. Vance ML. Can growth hormone prevent aging? N Engl J Med. 2003;348:779-780.
33. Liu H, Bravata DM, Olkin I, et al. Systematic review: the safety and efficacy of growth hormone in
the healthy elderly. Ann Intern Med. 2007;146:104-115.
34. Pope HG Jr, Wood RI, Rogol A, et al. Adverse health consequences of performance-enhancing
drugs: an Endocrine Society scientific statement. Endocr Rev. 2014;35:341-375.
35. Chen M, Eugster EA. Central Precocious Puberty: Update on diagnosis and treatment. Paediatr
Drugs. 2015;17(4)272-81.
36. Shi Y, Ma Z, Yang X, et al. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogue and recombinant human
growth hormone treatment for idiopathic central precocious puberty in girls. Front Endocrinol.
2023; 13:1085385.
37. Cleare AJ, Sookdeo SS, Jones J, et al. Integrity of the growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor
system is maintained in patients with chronic fatigue syndrome. J Clin Endocrinol Metab.
2000;85:1433-1439.
Page 22 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
38. Lin-Su K, Harbison MD, Lekarev O, et al. Final adult height in children with congenital adrenal
hyperplasia treated with growth hormone. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2011;96:1710-1717.
39. Speiser PW, Arlt W, Auchus RJ, et al. Congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to steroid 21-
hydroxylase deficiency: An Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab.
2018:103(11):4043-4088.
40. De Luca F, Argente J, Cavallo L, et al; International Workshop on Management of Puberty for
Optimum Auxological Results. Management of puberty in constitutional delay of growth and
puberty. Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2001;14 Suppl 2:953-957.
41. Simon D, Prieur AM, Quartier P, et al. Early recombinant human growth hormone treatment in
glucocorticoid-treated children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis: a 3-year randomized study. J Clin
Endocrinol Metab. 2007;92:2567-2573.
42. Bechtold S, Ripperger P, Dalla Pozza R, et al. Growth hormone increases final height in patients
with juvenile idiopathic arthritis: data from a randomized controlled study. J Clin Endocrinol
Metab. 2007;92:3013-3018.
43. Puustinen L, Jalanko H, Holmberg C, et al. Recombinant human growth hormone treatment after
liver transplantation in childhood: the 5-year outcome. Transplantation. 2005;79:1241-1246.
44. Wakeling EL, Brioude F, Lokulo-Sodipe O, et al. Diagnosis and management of Silver-Russell
syndrome: first international consensus statement. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2017:13(2):105-124.
45. Cuatrecasas G, Alegre C, Fernandez-Solà J, et al. Growth hormone treatment for sustained pain
reduction and improvement in quality of life in severe fibromyalgia. Pain. 2012;153:1382-1389.
46. Geenen R, Jacobs JW, Bijlsma JW. Evaluation and management of endocrine dysfunction in
fibromyalgia. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 2002;28:389-404.
47. Chang CW, Sung YW, Hsueh YW, et al. Growth hormone in fertility and infertility: Mechanism of
action and clinical applications. 2022;13:1040503.
48. Shadid S, Jensen MD. Effects of growth hormone administration in human obesity. Obes Res.
2003;11:170-175.
49. Mekala KC, Tritos NA. Effects of recombinant human growth hormone therapy in obesity in adults:
a meta-analysis. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2009;94:130-137.
50. Krantz E, Trimpou P, Landin-Wilhelmsen K. Effect of growth hormone treatment on fractures and
quality of life in postmenopausal osteoporosis: A 10-Year follow-up study. J Clin Endocrinol Metab.
2015;100:3251-3259.
51. Gillberg P, Mallmin H, Petren-Mallmin M, et al. Two years of treatment with recombinant human
growth hormone increases bone mineral density in men with idiopathic osteoporosis. J Clin
Endocrinol Metab. 2002;87:4900-4906.
52. Quigley CA, Zagar AJ, Liu CC, et al. United States multicenter study of factors predicting the
persistence of GH deficiency during the transition period between childhood and adulthood. Int J
Pediatr Endocrinol. 2013;2013(1):6.
53. Yuen K, Biller B, Radovick S, et al. American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists and American
College of Endocrinology guidelines for management of growth hormone deficiency in adults and
patients transitioning from pediatric to adult care. Endocr Pract. 2019;25(11):1191-1232.
54. Butler MG, Miller JL, Forster SL. Prader-Willi syndrome – clinical genetics, diagnosis, and treatment
approaches: an update. Curr Pediatr Rev. 2019;15(4):207-244.
55. Driscoll DJ, Miller JL, Cassidy SB. Prader-Willi Syndrome. In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, et
al., editors. GeneReview® [Internet]. Updated December 5, 2024. Available at:
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1330/pdf/Bookshelf_NBK1330.pdf. Accessed on March 20,
2025.
56. Roberts AE. Noonan Syndrome. 2022 Feb 17. In Adam MP, Everman DB, Mirzaa GM, et al.,
editors. GeneReviews® [Internet]. Seattle, WA: University of Washington. Available at: Noonan
Syndrome - GeneReviews® - NCBI Bookshelf. Accessed on April 9, 2025.
57. Cosciens BioPharma. Product Publicationns 2024. Available at: Our Product | COSCIENS BIO.
Accessed on April 10, 2025.
58. Iyer K, DiBaise JK, Rubio-Tapia A. AGA clinical practice update on management of short bowel
syndrome: Expert review. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2022;20(10):2185-2194.
HISTORY
Type of Summary of Changes Review Date
Revision
Page 23 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
Annual Revision Growth Hormone Deficiency in a Child or Adolescent: 04/05/2023
Patient has panhypopituitarism was changed to patient has
multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies. Also removed the
following criterion: Patient has pituitary stalk agenesis,
empty sella, sellar or supra-sellar mass lesion, or ectopic
posterior pituitary “bright spot” on magnetic resonance image
or computed tomography.”
Growth Hormone Deficiency in an Adult or Transition
Adolescent: Updated wording from “patient has known
mutations, embryopathic lesions, congenital or genetic
defects, or structural hypothalamic pituitary defects” to
“patient has known perinatal insults OR congenital or genetic
defects.” Removed the word “alone” when referencing the
arginine test.
Chronic Kidney Disease in a Child or Adolescent: The
following criterion was added for initial and continuation
therapy: Patient has or had chronic kidney disease as defined
by a glomerular filtration rate < 60 milliliters/minute. The
following criterion was removed under initial therapy:
“chronic kidney disease defined by abnormal creatinine
clearance.” The following criteria were added for initial
criteria: Patient has persistent growth failure as defined by
both of the following 1) Patient’s baseline height is less than
the 5th percentile for age and gender and 2) Patient’s baseline
height velocity is below the 25th percentile over a period of 3
months infants (≤ 1 year of age) or 6 months in children and
adolescents.
Noonan Syndrome in a Child or Adolescent: The
following criteria was added for initial and continuation
therapy: The diagnosis of Noonan syndrome has been
confirmed by one of the following i) Noonan syndrome has
been confirmed with genetic testing or ii) If genetic testing
does not definitively confirm the diagnosis, the prescriber has
made a clinical diagnosis of Noonan syndrome and note was
added with a description of a clinical diagnosis.
Prader-Willi Syndrome: The following criterion was added
for initial and continuation therapy: The diagnosis of Prader-
Willi syndrome has been confirmed by genetic testing.
Short Stature Homeobox-Containing Gene Deficiency in
a Child or Adolescent: The following criterion was added
for continuation of therapy: Patient has short stature
homebox-containing gene deficiency demonstrated by
chromosome analysis. For initial therapy, the patient’s
baseline height is less than the 3rd percentile for age and
gender was changed to less than the 5th percentile.
Child Born Small for Gestational Age or with
Intrauterine Growth Restriction Including a Child with
Silver-Russell Syndrome: The following criteria was added
for continuation of therapy: i) Patient was born small for
gestational age, which is defined as birth weight and/or birth
length that is > 2 standard deviations (SD) below the mean
(< -2 SD) for gestational age and gender and ii) Patient did
not have sufficient catch-up growth before age 2 to 4 years.
Removed continuation of therapy criteria for patients ≥ 18
years of age.
Turner Syndrome: The following criterion was added for
initial and continuation of therapy: The diagnosis of Turner’s
syndrome has been confirmed by karyotype analysis (i.e.,
chromosome analysis). The following criterion was added for
Page 24 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
initial therapy: Patient’s baseline height is less than the 5th
percentile for age and gender; previous wording which stated
that patient has short stature associated with Turner’s
syndrome was removed.
Short Bowel Syndrome in an Adult: The following criterion
was added to initial therapy: Patient is dependent on
intravenous parenteral nutrition.
Human Immunodeficiency Virus Infection with
Wasting or Cachexia in an Adult: The following criteria was
added: i) Patient has tried one appetite stimulant or other
anabolic agent or ii) Appetite stimulants or other anabolic
agents are contraindicated.
Selected Changes effective for 1.1.2024: 11/01/2023
Revision Growth Hormone Deficiency in a Child or Adolescent:
Criterion that specified the result of a growth hormone
stimulation test to be < 10 ng/mL was added. Criterionthat
the stimulation test show an inadequate response as defined
by a peak response below the normal reference range as
determined by the testing laboratory was removed.
Annual Revision No criteria changes. 04/03/2024
Annual Revision Removed Zorbtive from the policy (obsolete). 04/16/2025
Non-Growth Hormone Deficient Short Stature
(Idiopathic Short Stature) in a Child or Adolescent: A
criterion was added for initial therapy that the medication has
been prescribed by or in consultation with an endocrinologist.
Growth Hormone Deficiency in Adult or Transition
Adolescent: The criterion “Patient (adult onset or transition
adolescent) has three or more of the following pituitary
hormone deficiencies:.” was updated to “Patient (adult onset
or transition adolescent) has or had three or more of the
following pituitary hormone deficiencies prior to hormone
replacement therapy (if hormone therapy if required)”. The
criterion “The age and gender adjusted serum insulin-like
growth factor-1 is below the lower limit of the normal
reference range for the reporting laboratory” was updated to
“The age and gender adjusted serum insulin-like growth
factor-1 is or was below the lower limit of the normal
reference range for the reporting laboratory (…), prior to
growth hormone therapy”.
Noonan Syndrome in a Child or Adolescent: The criterion
“Noonan syndrome has been confirmed with genetic testing”
was updated to “Noonan syndrome has been confirmed by a
heterozygous pathogenic variant in BRAF, KRAS, MAP2K1,
MRAS, NRAS, PTPN11, RAF1, RASA2, RIT1, RRAS2, SOS1, or
SOS2 OR by either a heterozygous variant or biallelic
pathogenic variants in LZTR1.”
Prader-Willi Syndrome: The criterion “The diagnosis of
Prader-Willi syndrome has been confirmed by genetic testing”
was updated to “The diagnosis of Prader-Willi syndrome has
been established by identification of abnormal DNA
methylation of chromosome 15q11.2-q13.”
Human Immunodeficiency Virus Infection with
Wasting or Cachexia in an Adult (Serostim only):
Removed the criterion “If the patient has previously received
treatment with Serostim for this use, patient has been off
Serostim therapy for at least 1 month.”
In applicable diagnoses, updated the wording of “buffalo
hump” was updated to “dorsocervical fat pad.”
Page 25 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy
In applicable diagnoses, updated the wording “Patient has
been evaluated by an endocrinologist” to “The medication has
been prescribed by or in consultation with an
endocrinologist.”
Selected Short Bowel Syndrome. Criteria was updated to approve if 04/23/2025
Revision the patient has already been started on somatropin therapy
for this condition or has responded to somatropin therapy in
the past.
"Cigna Companies" refers to operating subsidiaries of The Cigna Group. All products and services are provided
exclusively by or through such operating subsidiaries, including Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company,
Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, Evernorth Behavioral Health, Inc., Cigna Health Management, Inc.,
and HMO or service company subsidiaries of The Cigna Group.© 2025 The Cigna Group.
Page 26 of 26 - Cigna National Formulary Coverage - Policy: Growth Disorders – Growth Hormone Prior
Authorization Policy